Discussed in today's meeting:

1. The XSL-FO transformation of the EAD3 tag library
  - Update from Karin: Currently stable, but may be informed coming forward from edits made to the HTML versions.
2. Styling improvements to the EAC-CPF and EAD3 HTML tag libraries.
  - Update: Ruth has done some work on this. She asked for help, however, as she's got a couple things she needs to try moving into XSLT and is unsure how, plus needs another set of eyes on the layout. Mark Custer agreed to help on this.
  - Ruth has talked to Glenn about the additional issues created by the Library of Congress's tables and enforced width into which the HTML tag library is forced.
3. Creating guidance for translations of the EAS tag libraries into more languages
  - Update: Lina has done French and Greek updates of the Headings for TEI substitution https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/blob/master/tei/Headingtranslation.xml . Needs some help with German. Suggested that she might work with Silke. Wim can provide Dutch headings.
  - Lina will work with Karin on this.
4. Determining other types of documentation which TS-EAS should provide (e.g. validation guidelines), outlining plans for what we want to write this year and what we think should be worked on in future.
  Goal to be determining what should be written, perhaps by end of January and then start writing some of the easier things.
  - Ruth: This can be conducted in a Google Document where we can then add things even as time goes forward and more things occur to us. We can log in the document what we'll work on and who's working on it.
  - Identified needs so far:
    - Information on validating with EAD3.
    - How to use the schematron (Terry and Mike to be on this?)
  Related, identified need:
  - Karin: We need a place for people who are not signed up for GitHub to submit issues. And we need that to be properly broadcast to listservs and other places.
  - Karin is also working on a template for people to submit GitHub issues so they'll submit useful data for us to work with, see: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/test-repository/issues/new
  We also need to build a repository of internal documentation for TS-EAS/Documentation Team work (Wim suggests perhaps using Wiki for GitHub.):
    - How to contribute to the GitHub. Branching, pull requests, best practices. Can probably adapt documentation which exists already.
    - A high-level view of what information exists and where it is and who the contact people are for updating it. Useful for bringing people on board or consolidation, see Wim's proposal.
5. Developing protocols for updating the web versions of the tag libraries, working with both Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin and Library of Congress
  - Ruth proposed that she get in touch with the representatives at each institution to learn what they will want from us and how we should transmit the HTML and/or CSS if it's updated.
  - Protocol needs to be in place for sending different kinds of updates--at least one other person from Documentation Team should sign off on a minor change, more of us if it's major, and we may want to send to TS-EAS as a whole to preview any major styling changes.
6. Determining what we want in terms of presence on the SAA Standards portal without duplication.
  - Led into Wim's proposal below. Nothing necessarily identified as going to standards portal.

Wim proposes that we look into consolidation of overall resources. They exist where they do now primarily for historic and political reasons. This is something to bring to the larger committee, but if we did choose to do so, it might be a good idea to outline exactly what we'd move where. The documentation of what exists, where it exists, and who we'd have to talk to to update it may help with this.

Karin shared the following on how we'll be updating to the overall TS-EAS:

Reports to TS-EAS chair liaison
Short term reports (December 1, April 1, annual meeting SAA)
There is no standard format for these reports yet. For 1 December the report should contain the following:
-	What we have developed / achieved as a team?
-	Products we have made available for review, with timeframes for people who are willing to review them.
-	Summary of reviews since last report.

Committee of the Whole virtual meeting (February)
Give a report like the short term reports, however not only as reports but also as possible points on the agenda for discussions. Present something for discussions if the team itself has a need for discussing questions.
