

## TS EAS all-member meeting, 2021-05-14

Notetaker: Sara

Regrets: Iris, Caitlin, Florence, Aaron, Wim


### Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Present
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anila Anjeli
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aaron Rubinstein
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Noah Huffman
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wim van Dongen
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Joost van Koutrik
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Adrian Turner (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Caitlin Rizzo
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Betts (EAS liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sara Schliep (Early career member 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



### Agenda



*   Welcome! (Karin and Mark)
*   From Standards (Eric)
    *   Minor revision for EAD3 tag library will be voted on soon
    *   Got the go-ahead to submit the ISO 8601 2019 purchase.  Just need to submit something to Lindsay, Kira, and Eric, along with the price.
*   Report about the year for standards (Karin)
    *   Report is due in mid/late June and will draw on the Team Lead reports for the year
*   Volunteer members (Karin and Mark)
    *   Update on-going with the roster work
        *   Should know soon about the 12 new appointments 
    *   Let us know if you want to continue for the remainder of the appointment
*   Planning the Annual meeting
    *   EAS Section / TS - EAS meeting, July 6, 11 a.m. - 1 p.m. EST
        *   Planning for breakout rooms
        *   Open to all
    *   Standards meeting: July 13, 12 - 2 p.m. EST.
    *   Meetings needed
        *   EAC-CPF meetings
            *   Will depend on the feedback received from the call for comments
            *   Plan for the regularly scheduled day/time for August (the 6th)
            *   Will keep August 13th as a placeholder
        *   EAD meetings
            *   None anticipated
        *   TS EAS meetings
            *   Should have one as an introduction meeting for new volunteer members and liaisons
            *   Poll will go out to Team Leads shortly to set aside days/times in late July for this meeting
                *   Will have to wait until volunteer appointments have been confirmed to officially schedule
*   EAC-CPF revision (Silke)
    *   Webinar report
        *   No feedback so far
        *   One person to follow up with who offered examples
    *   Call for Comments open for another 6 weeks
        *   Outreach Team will send out a reminder on June 9th when there are 3 weeks left
*   EAD (Kerstin)
    *   See full report: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/committee-updates/update_2021-05-14.md](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/committee-updates/update_2021-05-14.md)
    *   Revision
        *   Will discuss the EAC-CPF revisions at the May and June meetings in order to provide any EAD-specific feedback during the call for comments period
    *   Minor change TL
        *   Request has been submitted to Standards
    *   Minor change EAD2002
        *   Working with the Schema Team to prepare this request to go to Standards next
*   Outreach updates (Adrian and Cory)
    *   Busy with webinar coordination for the EAC-CPF webinars held in April
        *   Video editing in progress; will include a transcript from Silke and Kerstin’s notes
        *   Will include link to the webinar in the June 9th reminder about the EAC-CPF call for comments
    *   Working with EAS Section to plan the annual joint meeting
    *   Continuing to keep up with communications on the microsite and various listservs
*   EAS Section updates (Betts)
    *   Busy organizing the joint meeting
        *   Booked the longest possible meeting time slot
        *   Planning a panel discussion with 4-6 representatives from the various standards to report on their work
        *   There will also be time for TS-EAS team updates before the panel
    *   Will be re-sending a call for candidate to join EAS Section
        *   Betts cycling off
        *   Unclear about the timeline for knowing the next TS-EAS liaison because of the delay with new members
    *   Working with the Outreach Team to publicize events and announcements
*   Schema team updates (Mark)
    *   Recently accomplished:
        *   Published the draft release of EAC-CPF 2.0
        *   New examples added to the Tag Library
        *   Will soon request the E-ISBN for the Tag Library (following Standards’ approval of the E-ISBN workflow)
        *   Released a final version of EAD2002
    *   New principle regarding external sources for value lists
        *   [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EgRVZ1uLoaqPeukWd5xHzI1Eocp43JqA_VvIIQ_veeU/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EgRVZ1uLoaqPeukWd5xHzI1Eocp43JqA_VvIIQ_veeU/edit?usp=sharing) 
        *   External language lists will be removed
        *   Open to feedback about the updated language on maintenance
    *   Backups of the two web pages (EAC-CPF and EAD)?
        *   LOC has its own backups in multiple geographic locations
            *   Glenn will provide contact information for his backup liaison should anything occur to prevent him from serving as liaison
        *   EAC-CPF pages can be output in markdown and saved to GitHub
            *   Silk will discuss with Gerhardt
        *   May want to consider discussing backups of our standards with the SAA Web Archiving group
    *   Where to handle the Best Practice Guidelines?
        *   Created using the TL template without attributes/elements description?
        *   Wiki?
            *   Offers simple editing functionality
            *   Limited styling options
            *   No control over the URL
            *   Can be hard to find / may decrease visibility of the Best Practices
        *   Github Pages website?
            *   Essentially a hosted website (this is how DACS is hosted, following the SAA approval process)
            *   More control over display and style
        *   Want to plan for this to accommodate other Best Practices under the EAS umbrella
        *   Consensus toward GitHub Pages
            *   Schema Team will explore its potential over the summer
*   NAFAN update (Adrian)
    *   Two-year, grant-funded, collaborative project (see: [https://confluence.ucop.edu/display/NAFAN/](https://confluence.ucop.edu/display/NAFAN/))  
    *   Working toward more shared infrastructure 
    *   Trying to determine researcher needs (led by OCLC) 
    *   Evaluating different models for aggregation 
    *   How to pull in finding aids that aren't EAD encoded (PDF, etc.) 
    *   Slack channel in place for the project team 
    *   Work groups established 
*   Any other business (time permitting)
    *   None
*   Next meeting
    *   Annual meeting
