# 2024-06-13 Function subteam meeting


## Attendees

Karin, Dia, Elizabeth, Cory 


## Regrets

Mark, Mpho


## Agenda and notes



* Welcome! (Karin)
* Discussion points
    * Finalization of the text
    * Closing date will be 30th of September
    * Standards committee information:
        * [https://www2.archivists.org/procedures-for-review-and-approval-of-an-saa-developed-standard](https://www2.archivists.org/procedures-for-review-and-approval-of-an-saa-developed-standard) 
        * [https://www2.archivists.org/standards-development-and-review](https://www2.archivists.org/standards-development-and-review) 
* Action points
    * The examples files have been uploaded to GitHub
        * [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/functions-subteam/WhitePaper_examples](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/functions-subteam/WhitePaper_examples) 
    * Draft of announcement and text to survey
        * Will be enhanced and published by Cory
    * Karin
        * Will work with Cory on getting it all out!
        * Prepare a presentation for the TS EAS meeting in August and the Bring your own breakfast at the Annual meeting
    * All
        * Well done!!!!!
* Next meeting (Karin)
    * Wednesday 31st of July, 3.00pm CEST
