Present: Jess, Karin, Kerstin, Lina, Silke, Noah, Joost, Adrian, Ailie, Caitlin, Eric, Alex

Regrets: Wim, Mark

Note taker: Jess



* Introduction (Karin and Mark, 10 minutes)
    * Mark is sick, so is out- may impact schema meeting
* Report from Standards (Eric, 10 minutes)
    * Major/Minor updates and on-going work [moved up]
        * Updates: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1raPr1XpUUr9Dfurp-qwbGhoVJ4u_JJI904pELrUjH6Q/edit?usp=sharing
        * Additional changes in teal (clarify major definition, changes to form)
        * Close to final, would like our thoughts to move ahead
        * Kerstin: indication standards thoughts on whether nonrequired is “major” change [K: it is--major is one that benefits from community feedback- optional elements we ask for feedback]
        * Until Friday for a readthrough? Should be fine [2020-02-27]
        * Questions: send them on to Eric
    * Standards liaison with standards updates
        * New approvals
        * DACS-music library approved
        * Updates to standards portal
            * Being worked on- updating links and info
            * Hoping to have refreshed info available
    * RiC CM comments
        * Karin: proposing joint group response instead of separate responses from subcommittee in 2016--took it to Standards meeting
        * Discussion yesterday: sounds interested, would work for everyone
        * Meg (standards rep from Council): should be okay either way for Council
            * 2016 preference was for multiple responses
        * Checked with EGAD- timeframe: Feb. for call to go out- not sure when will go out, or how long call for comments will be
        * TS-DACS: take suggestion back to group and check-in on their side
* Group Reports (15 minutes)
    * EAC-CPF (Silke)
        * Members who have left, new members
        * Main thing: name encoding
        * Berlin meeting set-up
        * Relation RiC CM/RiC-O
        * Changed use of github: create one issue issue per element and attribute to summarise the change requests and prepare a tool to create the schema files, tag library and the best practise guidelines
        * Idea is to work on documentation
    * EAD (Kerstin)
        * 2 bigger things: finalization rolling revision cycle
            * Pending the major/minor documentation- publication, make sure everything is correct
            * Visualization created
        * 1.1.1 patch release: mainly covered issues around tag library
            * &lt;c12> LoC- should now validate
        * EAD3 reconciliation context of EAC-CPF revision
            * Prep for meeting in Berlin
        * Last annual report and implementation survey
            * Work with EAS section- related webpages, official examples and use cases- crossover with Comm/Outreach team
    * Schema (Mark)
        * Mark is out sick- reports forthcoming
        * Karin: EAD 1.1.1- made the change
        * Design document promised, but has been pushed back
    * Outreach (Adrian)
        * Formalized and established the charge for new team
        * Finalized membership
        * Had kick-off meeting last month- will be monthly meetings
        * Working on: translations- formulated statement regarding our role- draft should be shared shortly
        * Host an initial pilot webinar April 17 (allow for range of audience attend)
            * 30 minute sessions= Karin and Mark will present on activities
            * Talk about TS-EAS plans, also pilot and learn mechanics of webinars
            * Write up documentation
        * Write up documentation on various channels on what TS-EAS
        * Locked in times for meeting with other sections about TS-EAS activities
        * Send meeting invite
    * Related Standards (Karin)
        * First meeting this month (RiC)
            * Waiting to hear from standards- combine work with others
* Berlin Meeting Update (Silke, 10 minutes)
    * K: highlight what sent to us: sheet of where staying and phone numbers (contact info)
        * Go together to archives with those more familiar with Berlin
    * No connection whole time--will be a summary meeting time
* Handbook (Jess, 10 minutes)
    * [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/TS-EAS-on-SAA](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/TS-EAS-on-SAA)
    * Initial draft sections are complete: awaiting review/additions from subteam members
* Chicago (Karin, 5 minutes)
    * 3rd August EAC-CPF revision
    * 4th August TS EAS
    * Sme time frames
    * Same type of equipment
    * Venues: conference rooms- wifi yes (projector may be more difficult)
    * Anyone know Chicago? Possible dinner.
* Next Meeting: 2020-05-15 (same time)
* Extras:
    * RiC
    * Release date in Dubai
    * Comments: need to be had by middle of summer (winter: Ailie)
