
## TS EAS all-member meeting, 2021-07-07

Notetaker: Sara Schliep

Regrets: 


### Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Present
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anila Anjeli
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aaron Rubinstein
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Noah Huffman
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wim van Dongen
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Joost van Koutrik
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Adrian Turner (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Caitlin Rizzo
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Betts Coup (EAS liaison 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sara Schliep (Early career member 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Bo Doub (EAS Section liaison 21-22)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ricardo Eito Brun
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mpho Ngoepe
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lori Lindberg
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



### Agenda and notes



* Welcome! (Karin and Mark)
    * This meeting will be recorded and the slides are available on GitHub: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/TS-EAS-Notes/SAA21/TS%20EAS%20Meetings/TS%20EAS%202021-07-07.pdf
* Thank you to members leaving TS EAS (Karin)
    * Members cycling off include:
        * Anila Anjeli
        * Aaron Rubinstein
        * Florence Clavaud (will be the RiC liaison)
        * Noah Huffman
        * Joost van Koutrik
        * Adrian Turner
        * Caitlin Rizzo
        * Sara Schliep (Early Career member)
        * Betts Coup (EAS liaison)
* Liaison introductions from the Standards Committee, the EAC and EAD webpages, the EAS Section, and the Collection Management Section
* Introduction of new members (Mark)
    * Introductions given by TS-EAS leadership and reappointed members
    * Introductions of new international and national (SAA) members
    * Introductions by the other members of TS-EAS
    * Remember that members must participate in at least 1 team during their appointment
* Introduction of our different systems to use/structure (Karin and Mark)
    * Four meetings per year
    * Multiple sub-teams (see more below)
    * Communication formats:
        * TS-EAS SAA Email / website
        * Google Drive
        * GitHub
        * Slack
    * Check out the Handbook on GitHub and remember to share your preferred email and GitHub username (to Karin/Mark) to be added to the various communication channels
    * Web/Email list stats:
        * Full report on GitHub; highlights include 1,201 active members on the EAS listserv, roughly equal visits to the EAD3 and EAD 2002 web pages, and 38 member countries.
* Team presentations from team leaders
    * EAC-CPF (Silke)
        * Focuses on schema (files) and documentation
        * Meets monthly on the 1st Friday of the month via Zoom
        * EAC-CPF Revision ongoing since August 2017
            * Goals are to modernize the schema (simplifying where possible, aligning with EAD where useful, implementing features and solutions upon users’ requests, and clearing up unused components) and to revise single elements and attributes
            * Call for Comments closed at the end of June
            * Work now turns to finalizing EAC-CPF 2.0 with continued management of feedback and user requests along with enhancing existing documentation
            * Will also be working on finalizing the Tag Library and the Best Practice Guide
            * Planning to release EAC-CPF 2.0 in January 2022
        * EAC-CPF welcomes new members to provide fresh eyes, real examples, quality management for texts, support for documentation with the opportunity for leadership roles and digging into SNAC and ArchivesSpace’s new agent module. 
    * EAD (Kerstin)
        * Purpose is to maintain and support usage of EAD, consider and implement community requests following the rolling revision cycle for minor revisions, and communicate with the EAD user community
        * 9 members in 2020/21 about half from the US and half from Europe
            * Also looking for new members with fresh eyes and perspectives
        * Meets monthly the 3rd Friday of the month for ~1.5 hours (this can be adjusted depending on the time zones of new members)
            * Next meetings: 23 July, (no August meeting), 17 September, 15 October, 19 November, 17 December
        * Recent work includes:
            * Focus on EAD3 as the current version, which includes fixing bugs in the schema and tag library
                * Minor revision of the EAD3 Tag Library
            * Preparing the final schema release for EAD 2002
            * Collaboration with the Outreach team for webinars (recordings are available on the SAA YouTube channel and slides are in GitHub)
            * Review EAC-CPF 2.0 draft with an eye toward alignment with EAD (to be finalized at the July meeting)
        * Focus in the coming year will shift to a major revision of EAD
            * Approved by SAA Council in Dec. 2020 and announced in Jan. 2021
            * Currently getting a lay of the land regarding current use
                * Survey on use and usage of EAD
                * Panel session on EAD use cases
            * Major revision kick off will include:
                * Preparing an initial (internal) draft of EAD 4.0 starting with alignment with EAC-CPF
                * Publish a call for comments in Sept./Oct. that will run through the end of the year
                * Continuous review of comments and feedback in 2022
                * Considering a face-to-face meeting in spring 2022 or as part of SAA Annual in July/August 2022
    * Schema (Mark)
        * Schema subteam maintains and updates the EAD3 and EAC-CPF XML schemas according to the direction of allied subgroups (EAD and EAC-CPF), as well as
            * Responds to schema-related bug reports
            * Creates new schemas as required
            * Maintains and revises documentation created during the course of subteam work (e.g., guidelines on design patterns)
            * Shares documentation, code, and meeting minutes with the wider archival community
        * Last year’s work included
            * The release of EAC-CPF 2.0 draft schema including a conversion map
            * The addition of an EAS validation process in the GitHub account
            * The start of streamlining the publication process
            * The creation and update of Design Principles for Schemas and Documentation
            * Making the final update to EAD2002
        * Upcoming work for the year will include
            * Creating a publication framework for the new Best Practices Guide (now - December)
            * Adjusting the EAC-CPF 2.0 schema and documentation based on the EAC-CPF subteam’s direction (August - December)
            * Packaging the official release of EAC-CPF 2.0 (December)
            * Creating a draft release of EAD using the new publication process (at the EAD subteam’s request)
            * Fully automating the new publication process using GitHub Actions (January - July)
            * Documenting team-related processes in the EAS Handbook (ongoing)
            * And any other tasks that arise
        * Schema subteam currently has 5 members and the Standards liaison and welcomes the addition of new members
            * Have been meeting the 2nd Tuesday of each month
            * Next meeting will be in September
            * Consider joining the subteam if you’re interested in learning about schemas, GitHub, or the publication of technical standards or already have knowledge in these areas to share
    * Outreach and Communication (Cory)
        * Subteam currently has 4 members and 3 liaisons
        * Purpose is to promote broader awareness of TS-EAS’ activities and its work plans across a wide range of stakeholders and audiences and to liaise with the EAS Section leadership on communications, education, and outreach plans
        * Last year’s work included
            * Streamlining distribution channels for TS-EAS information
            * Collaborating in the development of tutorials and webinars (available on the SAA YouTube channel)
                * Encoded archival standards update webinar
                * Encoded archival standards primer
                * EAC-CPF revision webinar
                * EAD3 implementation panels
                * How to submit a bug or feature request tutorial
        * Upcoming work for the year will include developing
            * Records in context (RiC) update webinar
            * EAD revision planning webinar
            * “EAD on a Shoestring” tutorial
            * Standards revision cycle overview tutorial
        * Outstanding questions include
            * Are there other webinars or tutorials related to encoding standards that you would like to see?
            * How else can we improve communication about the work of TS-EAS?
    * Related Standards (Karin)
        * There used to be a Related Standards subteam charged with keeping track of other standards (e.g., RiC, Bibframe, etc.)
        * They made a report some years ago that we can use as a starting place
        * Need to think about whether this should be its own subteam or a task for all of TS-EAS membership
            * Should this include the EAS Section and the Standards Committee?
            * If yes, how?
    * EAC-F (Karin)
        * Encoded Archival Context - Functions or EAC-F is the working name for a new standard we have committed to developing
        * Based upon ISDF
        * Work will be closely tied to that of the EAC-CPF subteam and it would be useful for anyone interested to learn through participation in the EAC-CPF subteam
        * Should this be its own subteam? Or will this be the next phase of work for the EAC-CPF subteam?
* End of meeting
    * Next meetings
        * October
        * February
        * May
    * Remember to reach out to Karin, Mark, or the subteam leads (Silke, Kerstin, Cory) with questions and/or to join a subteam
