# Minutes, 2018-04-13
Time: 7 a.m. PST/ 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Mark

## Agenda / Minutes
- Updates
  - Schematron help (hold until next meeting)
  - Scoping EAD3 examples (hold until next meeting)
- Issues
  - do we need to weigh in on https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/140 ? (hold until next meeting)

- EAD 1.1 release:
  - tag library is updated and ready to go.
  - we need to give Alex the Github link to the release, once itâ€™s created
  - send the mail to Noah and Alex, with a copy to Karin and Kathy

	
- EAC revision:
  - Silke has added "implement" tags for the phase 1 minor update. Mark will start working on these / assigning them the next time we talk.

- Looming questions:
What are our next steps for automated testing?
What are our next steps for control?


- Action items:
  - follow up with Mike and Terry bout Schematron primer/intro.it would be great to have that before SAA, especially with EAC on the horizon. Karin will ping Mike.
  - clean up branches in EAD3 (and rename the current release branch). Mark will start, but check in with Terry about a few branches.


- Suggestion:
Github bootcamp.  would be good for the whole group; as we on-board new members; etc.
post SAA?


- Schedule our next meeting
5/18, 10 a.m. EST.  