# Minutes, 2018-03-16
Time: 7 a.m. PST/ 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Mark

## Agenda / Minutes
- Updates
  - Schematron help (skip until next meeting)
  - Scoping EAD3 examples (skip until next meeting)
  - Regine is working on a valid, Frankenstein EAC record. She'll upload that once it's ready.
  - Karin notes that we also need a few sample invalid EAC records, as well, for testing.  Plus at least one with multiple identifies.

- EAD3 1.1:
  - Noah, 3/26, meeting with EAD3 group.
  - Wim, Noah, and Kathy will provide an update for the EAD3 survey which includes a question about the undeprecated schemas.Should we supply a suggestion for how to ask this question?

 - EAS control schema. Should we undertake this before SAA? (i.e. come up with a working proposal):
   - create an EAD3/control schema
   - create an EAC-CPF/control schema.
   - create a shared control schema.
   - could help inform the EAC phase 2 revision.
   - regardless, it would make sense to manage control and any other shared schema sections so that there's a canonical version.

- Issues
  - do we need to weigh in on https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/140 ?  (skip until next meeting)

- Action items
  - Karin will make an extract of the control schema and share
  - Regine will upload the test EAC records
  - See if we can get Terry/Regine, etc., to present on schematron at the EAS Section meeting at SAA; Mark might pitch the ASpace Export plugin, which can export EAD3, transform files, and enforce schematron rules. (would be great to add an EAC option at some point!)

- Schedule our next meeting
  - Friday the 13th it is: 4/13, 10 a.m. EST
