# 2020-01-30 - 8:00-9:00am (Pacific time/Los Angeles)

## Attendees
Karin Bredenberg, Michele Combs, Glenn Gardner, Noah Huffman, Cory Nimer, Adrian Turner
Unable to attend: Lina Bountouri, Caitlin Rizzo, Caitlin Wells

## Discussion points

- Introductions 
- Housekeeping
  - Workspace: we'll post any public version of our meeting notes to GitHub (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes)
  - Our internal team notes and working team docs are in Google Drive
    - Action items: please indicate your preferred Google Drive account. Contact Cory and Adrian if you can't access the Google Drive folder
  - Our internal team mailing list: ts-eas-oc@googlegroups.com
  - Our internal team Slack channel (on Code4Lib): #ts-eas-oc
    - Action items: please join the Code4Lib Slack (see https://code4lib.org/irc/). Once you've joined, please notify Adrian to be added to the #ts-eas-oc channel
  - Meeting frequency/scheduling: we're going to be meeting once per month.
    - Action items: please indicate your availability to meet on the 3rd or 4th Wednesday of each month
- Recap of former Documentation team activities from 2019 
  - Tag library translations: 
    - Action items: Cory and Adrian will take a first pass at formulating a statement, for posting on EAD and EAC-CPF sites (with links to current translations). The statement will be similar in content to (https://www.dublincore.org/resources/translations/). We'll also reference the process for submitting new translations (link to forthcoming handbook -- should be stabilized in 2-3 weeks)
- Prioritizing our team's activities for 2020
  - From our charge:
    - Prepare communication plan/strategy for 2020. Reach out to EAS Section leadership to discuss strategy
      - Action items: Cory and Adrian will take a first pass at preparing a "strawperson" strategy, for team review and refinement
    - Schedule, coordinate, and pilot a webinar (includes establishing processes to host/run the webinar series, using SAA's Zoom: (https://www2.archivists.org/governance/leaderresources/saa-zoom-virtual-conferencing))
      - We honed in on the idea of hosting a pilot webinar in mid-March, which will highlight TS-EAS priorities for the year. Karin and Mark will be the primary presenters. Suggested that we should have two of our team members on the call to co-host the Zoom session, monitor chat, provide tech support, etc.
      - We'll plan to host 2 sessions -- one optimized for US timezones, one optimized for Europe timezones. Each session would be ~30 mins. (15 min. Presentation, 15 min. Q&A)
      - Action items:
          - Karin will apprise Mark of our initial plans
          - Adrian will send a Doodle poll to identify mid-March times; will also book the times on the SAA Zoom calendar
      - Looking ahead, we'll want to conduct early testing of SAA's Zoom to ensure that it'll work for our purposes -- and create a checklist of pre- and post-webinar steps. Let's pick this topic up at our next meeting
    - Identify and prepare a highlight/feature write-up of a TS-EAS work plan item, for posting to EAS Section, EAD listserv, and other venues
      - Building on the webinar, we'd prepare a write-up of TS-EAS priorities for the year -- and distribute that message through key channels
  - Additional tasks to consider:
    - Microsite updates/housekeeping: revisiting the scope of the microsite vis-a-vis GitHub. Intended audience and goals for information that we're posting on the microsite
      - Deferring this topic for our next meeting
    - Looking further ahead: SAA 2020 and outreach opportunities at Sections
      - We need to secure time at Section meetings by March 1 -- minimum 10 mins. Proposed Sections: EAS, Description, Collection Management, Digital Object/Metadata
      - Action items:
        - Michele will secure time at EAS and Digital Object/Metadata Sections (cc: Karin)
        - Cory and Adrian to secure time at Description and Collection Management Sections (cc: Karin)
