# 2020-12-16 - 8:00-9:00am (Pacific Time/Los Angeles)

## Attendees
Noah Huffman, Karin Bredenberg, Jane LaBarbara, Glenn Gardner, Adrian Turner, Cory Nimer, Michele Combs

## Discussion points

- Standards Committee updates
  - Approved EAD revision (does not require final approval from Council)
  - Major/minor revision proposal will be under review by Council in January
  - Will also be putting out a call for review/maintenance of content in Standards Portal
  - Communicating updates re: EAS changes to Education and Publication? (Per Karin's e-mail to TS-EAS: "Following this I need to ask our Outreach team who already have the contact with SAA Education to come up with a plan on how we inform Education when there is a Major change made which impacts the tutorials and so on since one of the last changes as I understood it is that it's better that the communication regarding the changes goes directly between the DACS/EAS/and so on and Education and thus we as TS EAS is responsible for setting up that workflow.")
  - Next steps:
    - Cory/Adrian will reach out to Rana Hutchinson Salzmann to let her know about the upcoming revisions, and to verify what the process should be for informing Education and updating workshop materials
    - Karin/Mark will reach out to Teresa Brinati (SAA Publications Director) about plans to reprint of the EAD3 tag library
- EAD revision
  - Minor vs major and a full revision. EAD3 will be undergoing a full revision process as stated from the rules regarding standards. https://www2.archivists.org/governance/handbook/section7/groups/Standards/Procedures-Review-Approval-SAA-Developed-Standard 
  - Community will be advised of discussions/upcoming changes throughout the process
    - ArCan (Michele)
    - EAS Section
    - Code4Lib
    - TS-EAS microsite news (Glenn (on behalf of TS-EAS))
    - EAD list (LOC) (Glenn (on behalf of TS-EAS))
    - ICA
    - SAA Announce (Glenn (on behalf of TS-EAS))
    - Metadata and Digital Objects (Michele)
    - Collection Management
    - Lone Arrangers 
    - Description 
    - MARAC (Mid-Atlantic) (Michele)
    - NEA (New England)
    - MAC (Midwest)
    - Southwest Archives/all western regionals (covered by West_Arch)
    - BTAA
    - General announcements list
    - Archives and Linked Data Interest Group
    - Facebook
    - Twitter
    - Archivists working with archival data Slack channel
- Section education planning and SAA Education discussion -- notes from 11/19 call w/ Rana Hutchinson Salzmann
  - SAA Education will be offering an EAD3 course in February (taught by Mike Rush and Kathy Wisser)
  - The workshop survey will also include questions provided by Kerstin/EAD subteam (below):
    - Does your institution already use EAD3? Yes / No
    - If your institution does not yet use EAD3, does your institution use EAD 2002? Yes / No
    - If your institution does not yet use EAD3, is your institution considering to use it? Yes, as an update from using EAD 2002 / Yes, starting from scratch with EAD3 / No
    - If your institution does use EAD3 or is in the process of implementing EAD3, would you be willing to share your experience - and example files - with the Technical Subcommittee on Encoded Archival Standards (TS-EAS)? If yes, please provide your email address, so that we can get in contact with you.
  - Noted that lack of EAD workshops in recent years have led some to believe that standard is inactive/not supported
- EAS Section Steering Committee updates
- Announcements:
  - Requested by Kerstin: posting EAD revision announcement/call for samples
  - TS-EAS volunteers -- announcement
  - Formalizing our "stock" mailing list channels
    - EAD mailing list
    - ICA mailing list
    - SAA Announce
    - SAA EAS Section
    - Other potential lists?
      - SAA Leaders
      - SAA Collection Management Section
      - SAA Description Section
      - SAA Electronic Records Section
      - SAA Metadata and Digital Object Section. 
      - Regional library/archive/museum mailing lists 
- Webinar updates
  - EAC-CPF - Cory will check back in w/ Silke re: timeframing
  - EAD3 implementation case studies
    - Action item: Michele will check with EAS Section SC to ask for a volunteer to lead development/programming of an EAD3 implementation case study webinar
  - EAD revision process planning -- overview, timeline, potential in-scope/out-of-scope (grounded in design principles), call for examples, etc.?
    - Action: Adrian to ask Kerstin about scheduling this in first quarter of new year!
  - RiC update
    - Planning for March/April 2021 (Daniel/Florence to provide a specific date)
- Tutorial updates
  - "EAD on a shoestring" rough outline -- still in-progress - Current draft here, comments welcome!
  - Major/minor revision - on hold, pending Council approval 
  - EAS primer - almost done!
- TS-EAS volunteers 
  - 2 submissions via international form!
