# 2020-09-16 - 8:00-9:00am (Pacific Time/Los Angeles)

## Attendees
Adrian Turner, Cory Nimer, Karin Bredenberg, Noah Huffman, Glenn Gardner, Jane LaBarbara, Michele Combs

## Discussion points

- Welcome Jane LaBarbara, incoming Collection Management Section liaison! Thank you to Caitlin Wells for serving through August 2020
- EAS Section / TS-EAS O&C subteam meeting debrief
- Newsletters and/or e-mail announcements to our existing venues: 
  - See draft announcement circulated by Glenn re: TS-EAS meeting notes, design principles, and submitting bug/feature requests (new tutorial and handbook section)
  - Edits requested by 9/17
- Webinar updates
  - Records in Context
    - Mostly ready, just waiting on scheduling with Daniel and Florence (Adrian)
    - Target October 2020 timeframe
  - EAC-CPF draft revision rollout
    - Overview of high-level changes, schema changes. One or two separate sessions (also factor in hosting the sessions for multiple time zones)
    - Host office hours, after the initial webinars?
    - Target January 2021 timeframe? Need to coordinate with Silke before October 9 EAC-CPF meeting (Cory)
  - EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to EAD4
- Tutorial updates
  - Submitting feature/bug requests
    - Posted to YouTube (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DKe1R35EQ3k) -- thanks, Noah! 
    - EAC-CPF and LoC sites updated with pointer to new handbook page (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/Submitting-an-Issue-or-Feature-Request) (thanks, Cory!)
  - "EAD on a shoestring" (Michele Combs) - draft planned for mid-October
  - EAS primer (Kathy Wisser)
    - Kathy working on draft talking points, she would like help recording it
  - EAS revision cycle (Noah Huffman)
    - Trying to communicate the rolling nature of revisions, rather than the mechanics of the 5-year revision cycle
    - Standards is still working on approval of their minor/major revision procedures, hoping to have that done this year
    - Technical subcommittees have been reminded that the five-year cycle requirement is still in place
- Other issues
  - TS-EAS email address
    - SAA staff reported that it should not be a problem, but request is under review
    - Would allow community to e-mail directly to chairs rather than using webform
