# 2020-07-15

## Attendees
Michele, Cory, Caitlin, Glenn, Adrian

## Discussion points:
- Microsite revisions - next steps
  - Proposal available in Google Drive folder -- no comments from committee review
  - With review complete, will go ahead and make the changes to the microsite (Glenn/Cory)
  - Meeting times for the subcommittee could also  be posted to the site, let people know that these are open meetings that anyone can attend
  - Announcements to add:
    - Webinar recording availability (don't post to SAA news feed)
    - SAA TS-EAS meetings (DO post to SAA news feed)
- SAA TS-EAS meetings - announcing times/dates, open invitation to attend?
  - AT to take a crack at draft message
- SAA Section updates (Mark Custer will be presenting)
  - EAS Section - July 29, 1:30-2:45 CDT
  - Collection Management Tools - July 27, 4:00-5:15pm CDT
  - Description Section - July 29, 3:30-4:30 pm CDT
  - Draft slides from Karin
- Webinar/tutorial planning
  - EAS Section survey results
    - For next meeting, everyone should review the survey results to help identify areas where we could contribute, address training needs
    - 139 respondents (sent to general SAA membership, regional archival orgs, EAD listserv...)
  - Update re: EAC-CPF tutorial and RiC webinar
  - "EAD on a shoestring" - tutorial (Michele scripting)
  - Submitting feature/bug/issue requests - tutorial (Noah scripting)
