<!-----



Conversion time: 0.949 seconds.


Using this Markdown file:

1. Paste this output into your source file.
2. See the notes and action items below regarding this conversion run.
3. Check the rendered output (headings, lists, code blocks, tables) for proper
   formatting and use a linkchecker before you publish this page.

Conversion notes:

* Docs to Markdown version 1.0β35
* Sun Feb 25 2024 23:47:36 GMT-0800 (PST)
* Source doc: 2023-10-24 Meeting notes
* Tables are currently converted to HTML tables.
----->



# TS EAS all-member meeting, 2023-10-24

Notetaker: Mary Samouelian

Slide deck: TS EAS 2023-10-24


## Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Present (Y/N)</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski 
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lara Michels (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Otshidile Patience Tshegetsang
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mpho Ngoepe
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Schema team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Erick Cardoso
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Martin Critelli
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>李彦霖 Yanlin Li (Ellen)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kelly Revak (EAS Section liaison 23-24)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Janaya Kizzie (EAS Section liaison 23-24)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lydia Tang (Council liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud (EGAD liaison, EAD team)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



# Agenda with Notes 24th of October 2023



* Welcome (Karin and Mary)
    * Start recording
    * We currently do not have an early career member, so Karin is leading the meeting and Mary is taking notes
    * Covering all the different time zones with two new TS EAS additional members; are recording this so everyone can view this video (including those who were not able to attend)
    *  All the TS-EAS members introduced themselves, including name, time zone, their position title and whether they were receiving the emails from TS EAS mail list. Four members (Alex, Venkat, Yanlin) and liaison (Janaya) are not receiving emails.
    * Team photograph taken
* Karin provided an overview for the call for members which will be happening before the end of the year. Indicated that if a member’s term was ending 2024, the co-chairs will be reaching out to confirm whether the member wanted to continue on TS EAS. If yes, then his/her reappointment would be supported.
* Standards Committee (Lara)
    * Have a new chair for Standards (Jodi) and Lara is the co-chair.
    * Gave brief update on helping TS EAS with the SAA Diversity Committee. Janaya note said that she would like to help with the SAA Diversity Committee work/effort (in the chat)
    * Also, brief update on other Standards Committee work
* EAS Section liaison (Janaya) provided a brief update on the group including new members.
* Schema (Mark)
    * Lori rolled off; Ailie rolled onto the group
    * Covered meeting schedule
        * Regular meetings on the first Friday of the month.
        * Next meeting = 2023-11-04, this Friday (2 p.m UTC)
        * Will also change the frequency of meetings as needed to assist with getting the next few EAD4 releases created + published
    * Provided update on GitHub status
    * Provided a brief EAD4 preview – where things are in progress with accessConditions (just an example of some of the things that the Schema team is working on). All still in flux but give an example --- this is coming out of the work of the EAD team. Gearing up for the EAD redesign.
* EAC-CPF (Marie)
    * Meet monthly, but currently not on this cadence because it’s not a major release
    * Wants to reach out to formal/informal communities to see if they are using EAC-CPF and if there are any questions/concerns
    * A new revision is on the horizon, so the team is beginning to talk about this
    * Brief snapshot of visitors/visits, page views, etc. interesting to see some of the stats; mainly trying to figure out how to engage with the community because EAC-CPF is not as widely used as EAD.
* EAD (Karin on behalf of Kerstin)
    * Three members rolled off – big current group because it is a major revision
    * Stats – this is “hot” stuff – interested in knowing how the stats are being collected (Karin asked Glenn); interest in EAD3 is growing, but people are still very interested in EAD2
    * Update on what happened since the May meeting including a number of different elements have been a topic; some proposed new names; etc.
    * Had a meeting in DC; hybrid working meeting; everyone on TS EAS is welcome to attend even though not on the team; presentation from the RiC team (it has not yet been published); there is a recording from this presentation; issues are being collected on GitHub
    * List of main topics discussed in the meeting (the team really went deep in these during the DC meeting).  NAFAN discussion – outcome might have a need for a core schema (minimal elements need to support an aggregator).
    * How to have more direct engagement with user communities, vendors/operators, aggregators, and vendors? It’s really the customers that need to drive this. Early December – draft schema completed and how to we share this with all of these communities?
    * February next TS EAS and EAD team will continue working on issues. Publish call for comments on the second half of 2024 (fingers crossed!)
* EAC-F (Karin)
    * Preparing a lot of mockups to show how this could look
    * Functions have been highly discussed in Europe, but not necessarily in the U.S. How do we engage with communities in the US? How do we connect with EAD work? Work with the outreach team will intensify as this moves forward. Might end up in the same time frame as the EAD team, so how do we manage this? All notes on this team are on GitHub, so please check this out!
    * Venkat noted in the chat that EGAD group is organising a first hybrid event dedicated to early implementation of RiC on November 15, 2023.
* Outreach Team (Cory)
    * Introduced current members, noted that the team is in a bit of a lull
    * Reinforce that we are happy to help with sub teams, developing webinars, promoting standards, reaching out to the community, etc. Reach out if there is anything we can help out with.
* Karin gave update from the meeting with SAA in September
    * SAA staff is in Chicago
    *  Also gave a status update on RiC – not everyone knows what RiC is, have a current statement on standards alignment – how we are reacting to & treating RiC. Continue to work with Standards Committee/Lydia on this and fingers crossed that this happens in February
    * Elizabeth had questions about how this statement is being messaged. Reassured her that the approach will not be SAA Council dictating the message, but TS EAS will work with Standards and then inform Council how we would like to proceed. Lydia agreed with this approach. Lara said that it was good that we are having the meeting on Nov. 2. Parameters of the plan sounds good.
    * Lydia – question about RiC/EAD communication – Karin – bylaws state that we have members of EGAD and TS EAS and we do! Not just going to jump on and change everything to RiC but will evaluate as it evolves.
* FileDesc slide. This topic was already addressed in the previous meeting, so not discussing it during this meeting. Still some outstanding things: relations (shared element with EAC-CPF?)
* Any other business?
    * Karin – have one request to retake the picture
* Next meetings
    * February (aim: Time better for time zones UTC +5)
    * May
    * SAA annual meeting (July)
    * October

Thanks to all who attended!    
