## Meeting notes TS EAS 9th of October 2020

Notetaker:  Sara

Regrets sent:  Eric (on vacation)

### Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Present
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anila Anjeli
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aaron Rubinstein
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Noah Huffman
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wim van Dongen
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Joost van Koutrik
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Adrian Turner (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Caitlin Rizzo
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Betts (EAS liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sara Schliep (Early career member 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Notes


#### Welcome!


#### Photo time!


#### Major/Minor + Community feedback update (Mark)

No feedback from the last meeting regarding the Community Feedback document from Standards, so will continue as planned. Hoping for substantial community feedback in the future. All feedback will be submitted with everything else for SAA Council’s approval. Could create a new issue to target feedback or announce in another way.

Major/Minor revision process proposal is on the agenda for the next SAA Council meeting. TS-EAS has not yet seen the final proposal. Will find out in November if Council approves it and go from there as it would apply to our work. Unclear if the process will apply to both Schema and Tag Library. (Context for new members: This has been in the works for 3 years. Goal is to adjust the process so that minor revisions (e.g., a spelling error) don’t have to go to Council for approval but could be done at a local level.)


#### Review “Chicago” meeting schedule: 10 days, 10 meetings

SAA 2021 being planned at this time as a hybrid model or a full remote conference. Likely EAS will have Zoom meetings again next year, or at least a virtual component. SAA 2020 EAS meetings were held over 2 weeks at various times to accommodate members’ time zones. 

Found the meeting schedules difficult since meetings were held at different times each day. 

Perhaps there could be more meetings per day rather than spread across 2 weeks. This would allow for more of a “deep dive” into the work. 

Hard to accommodate a full day (of waking/working time) for any member because of the time zones.

Two weeks of meetings was exhausting, though productive.

Another section will be having 1 meeting a week for 3 weeks. Could we have a 2-3 hour session 1 week and then prepare for another meeting of similar time/format for the next week?

If our membership changes, we may have a greater number of time zones to accommodate. 

Could there be cluster meetings based on time zones or based on topics being discussed?

Hard for some to attend committee meetings during their normal working hours.

Could return to this topic around February/March because we’ll have to know around May our preferred final format.

Great that there were ~100 attendees at the open meeting because of the virtual format. Support for doing this again next year. This may also be the type of meeting where we could do clusters for different time zones. 

Could do a combined meeting with EAS for the open meeting.

Support for repeating the introductory meeting for new members. (Again, time zones may be an issue. Not ideal to introduce new members at a very early or a very late hour.)


#### Update in application process to become a member (Karin / Mark)

Supposed to be 50% from SAA and 50% from outside SAA. Those who are not SAA members have a more complicated application process but would like to make it more similar to the SAA members’ application process. By the time the announcement reaches some international members, the deadline for applying is close or past. Call for new members goes out in October/November and we’d like to have our announcement go out at that same time. Also a challenge to replace members after 2 years because of our revision cycles, so looking to revise the lengths of service. We need to have consistent membership through a revision cycle. Plan to ask at the May meeting for members to consider their ability to continue to serve so that we can put out a call in October. Will also be enforcing the rules of participation and replacing anyone who drops below the participation threshold (attendance at 2 meetings and working in at least 1 group). Looking at other options for publicizing the call for members including the microsite and ICA. Next year will be a testing year for this and we’ll need to rewrite our by-laws as well.

EAS has used all their social media platforms to advertise calls for membership, though in recent years appointments have come through personal contacts. Process for a special appointment (at an off-time) was very simple.


#### EAC-CPF revision (Silke)

“Chicago” meeting was very productive (though exhausting). Have an early draft of the new schema that still needs some minor revision. Aim to have the call for comments go out still this year, though it may creep into January because of holidays/lockdowns. Still seems realistic to release EAC 2 around the next annual meeting following the planned timeline from the Berlin meeting last March. Having monthly meetings (first Friday) and are currently discussing detailed questions on element and attribute usage. Could use examples from committee members and the community. Will need assistance around January/February from Schema and Tag Library groups. 


#### EAD revision administrative needs (Kerstin)

EAD taking comments and feedback until 2020-10-19 on their proposed revisions. See proposal here: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q8dpGxQyF2IOV9GmJoUwMlUeMTPiGRl8DKFllasv6Bw/edit#](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1q8dpGxQyF2IOV9GmJoUwMlUeMTPiGRl8DKFllasv6Bw/edit#) Can add comments and questions directly into the document.

The EAD team will finalize this document during their next meeting, 2020-10-20, and then we will submit it to the Standards Committee so that it can be added to their agenda for either their November or December meeting.

Link to slides:  [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Wcud35wobrJCfm-4NRRllVQfiVnPfszdEJjaLFRz3f0/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Wcud35wobrJCfm-4NRRllVQfiVnPfszdEJjaLFRz3f0/edit?usp=sharing) 

A revision needs to be carried out based upon a number of criterias:



*   5-year-cycle proposed in SAA by-laws
*   Revision of EAC-CPF (and EAG) gives changes impacting EAD
*   Publication of RiC and the publication will impact EAD
*   Other developments, e.g. schema.org / Wikidata Project also will have influence on EAD

Going through with the revision will impact a number of different stakeholders like the aggregators and users who manually create EAD documents. The use of the EAS standards and especially the Archives Portal Europe profiles has also increased in Europe through the use of them in the eArchiving Building Block specification for archival information. The current parallel use of EAD2002 and EAD3 will be affected and a transition to the new version will be aided.

For engagement, EAD team will be looking at EAD3 implementation survey and EAS Section, case studies, aggregators, various listservs.

Will be publishing XML Schemas (possibly also in JSON), Schematron, Tag Library, a best practice guide, and in conjunction with the EAS Section will provide additional support, tools, and training options. On JSON, many developers are using this, such as SNAC, ArchivesSpace, and others. This would allow people to more easily switch tools, but wouldn’t change the development process for Schema. Decision comes down to community need and desire. There are some existing APIs that might be useful for converting to JSON. Iris will take this question to SNAC and report back. 

Will be reviewing the status quo until summer 2021 and have the call for comments go out in the second half of 2021. May publish a mini-revision from the reconciliation process. Initial first draft would then be out in Q1 2024 and publishing EAD 4.0 in Q4 2024 or Q1 2025. This timeline will depend on changes needed from the community feedback portion.

Currently in discussion with NAFAN and APEF WGoS to host or sponsor face to face meetings in the future. Looking at “special project” and SAA Foundation Grant funding for travel and technical consulting fees.

Budget question regarding paying for technical consulting help outside of the committee:  Mark will follow up with TS-DACS co-chairs about their process for outsourcing work to retroactively update their GitHub releases (see [https://github.com/saa-ts-dacs/dacs/releases](https://github.com/saa-ts-dacs/dacs/releases)).  For TS-EAS, it would be good to get feedback and help with adding automated testing procedures to our workflow process, both with the schemas and the tag libraries.

Issue #63 in the Tag Library in GitHub needs more examples for some attributes. 

Should we make an open call for Issue #63 to prompt replies? Not at this time because it relates to the Major/Minor revision, so was decided to be done within EAS first.


#### Outreach / EAS Section updates (Adrian and Cory)

Joint meeting with EAS Section to discuss community survey. Looking for places to coordinate efforts. Four outcomes: 1) shared document for collaboration and to avoid duplicating effort, 2) will help maintain the list of resources that’s on the EAS Section’s microsite, 3) invited to have a TS-EAS liaison at EAS Section meetings, 4) building relationship with the Collection Development Section

Planning 3 upcoming webinars. First an update on RiC (co-sponsored with ICA) and just need to pin down a date with the possible presenters. Hoping to have this before the end of the year. Second one to introduce the updated version of EAC-CPF once it is ready. May coincide with the idea of “office hours” meetings proposed at Annual. Third one on EAD3 implementation case studies and laying the groundwork for EAD4. Likely not until 2021.

Working on pre-recorded video tutorials. One has already been put out by Noah on submitting features and bugs. 

Others under development: 

EAS primer/tutorial that will give a high-level introduction to EAD and EAC-CPF and how to implement them. May end up being more than one tutorial. Looking at the DACS primer as a possible model. 

One on free tools for editing and validating EAD. Will highlight the webform for validation.

One on the Major/Minor revisions, but waiting for the final decision from Council to go forward.

Planning to work more closely with the EAS Section on these activities going forward.


#### RiC evaluation process.

Standards committee will have a joint task force to look at RiC. Haven’t heard yet from Standards on when that group will meet, but will probably have 2 TS-EAS members on that task force. Unclear when RiC will be published.


#### Any other business (time permitting)

Standards committee recently discussed a new standard for accessioning/acquisitioning. The approval process was quick and smooth. Will provide some feedback on budget implications. Indicates that approval for our work will also be quick and smooth (especially the EAD revision).


#### Next meeting


    2020-02-19, same time
