# Meeting, 26 November 2019
Time: 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CEST

## Attendees
- Alex, Mark, Karin, Jess, Eric (Standards Liaison)

## Agenda / Minutes
- Discuss tag library updates.  See https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/milestone/1:
  - includes updates to examples created by EAD group
  - includes updates to rightsDeclaration example that didn't get merged into the 'master' branch previously
  - includes thead fix for c12. see
thead fix (c12)
  - includes update for ref, which will now list foregin as an available element


- Discuss 1.1.1 schemas. See https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v.1.1.1
   - Issue \#523 fixed.  Test out c12 using the XSD schemas. e.g. https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/blob/v1.1.1-develop/samples/ead3/EAD3test-xsd.xml#L509-L515
   - Issue \#522 fixed.  Test out using foreign in ref in all schemas. e.g. https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/blob/v1.1.1-develop/samples/ead3/EAD3test-xsd.xml#L140-L141
   - Issue \#499 fixed (again). Now, objectXMLwrap should work the same in both the RNG and XSD schemas, regardless of the XML processor that's used when using the XSD schema variants.  e.g. https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/blob/v1.1.1-develop/samples/ead3/EAD3test-xsd.xml#L319-L339 (where the first objectXMLwrap element should validate, adn the second objectXMLwrap element should throw an error.)

## Next steps
 - Find out decision from 2019-11-25 meeting whether Council gives us the go-ahead to release the patch release.
 - Aiming to get the tag library updated by December 6th, and reviewed by December 13th
 - Once the schemas and tag library are ready, the schema subteam will notify the EAD3 group, who will then:
    - notify LoC about updates required for EAD website;
    - email listservs about the release of EAD3 1.1.1
 - Goal is to get 1.1.1 release out in December

- Next meeting: 2019-12-17, Tuesday, same time.

## Action items
- Ready tag library branch for 1.1.1 release (Alex: no later than December 6)
- Review tag library branch (All: no later than December 13)
- Invite Eric to the next set of Schema Subteam meetings (Mark)
- Invite Eric to the the full TS-EAS meetings (Jess)
- Review schema-design principles. See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cMQwd-Yt4DPvC04lMiB3qc_yKnVRuED8n8BkyRNWWg4/edit?usp=sharing (All: review sections and add text; Mark: add to December meeting agenda to disuss progress)
- Review https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/labels/Schematron. (Mark: add to December meeting agenda)
- Until we update the schema-publication process, update the documentation to include the step about the fix required for Issue 499 (Mark)
- Celebrate release of 1.1.1?
