Virtual Meeting, 2020-05-15

Present: Mark, Karin, Glenn, Joost, Noah, Ailie, Caitlin, Wim, Eric, Silke, Adrian, Alex, Cory, Kerstin

Absent:

Note-taker: Jess



1. Introduction (Karin and Mark, 10 minutes)
    1. Group Picture via Zoom
        1. Picture taken
        2. Please send us one if you couldn’t come!
2. Report from Standards (Eric, 10 minutes)
    1. Continuing same thing: some slowed down or on hold- general situation with shut downs
    2. Major/minor update
        1. Lindsey comments incorporating and getting docs ready for Council
    3. Working on updates to Standards Portal
        1. Smaller group for more detail on updates
    4. No new update on RiC request for comments- waiting to hear back more info on that
        1. Mark: Too much going on right now- if we want something, may have to do it ourselves (probably will be September or later)
        2. Mark: DACS still interested- had provided detailed feedback the first time around, and they are interested in another review.
3. Group Reports (15 minutes)
    1. EAC-CPF (Silke)
        1. F2F meeting for 4 days: good meeting and intensive
            1. Notes available to read: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/eaccpf-subteam/meeting-minutes/2020/f2f-meetings/Berlin/20200309-12_EAC-CPF_minutes.pdf
        2. Documentation of assertion work
            1. Arrived at a solution- finalize the latest document but it will be up on GitHub soon
            2. Proposal on how to encode relations
        3. Decisions on detailed questions: attributes and elements
        4. General discussions
            1. @localtype
    2. EAD (Kerstin)
        1. Did rounds of feedback on issue 517
        2. Decided to not go with suggestion, but emphasise that there is a solution to do the request (&lt;relations>)
        3. Issues are mainly around schematron: will not have another EAD minor release
        4. Berlin: reconciliation between EAD and EAC-CPF
        5. Looking ahead to think about this: smaller bits of attributes and elements pieces
        6. Renaming the &lt;script> because of potential security risk- fit into processing scripts- rename to &lt;writingsystem>
        7. Distinction between &lt;date> and &lt;datesingle>
        8. Working with outreach team for webinars on EAD3
        9. Mark: CORDA- interested in data and white papers- responded about previous EAD3 survey
            1. https://www2.archivists.org/groups/committee-on-research-data-and-assessment/corda-open-forum-august-4-2019
    3. Schema (Mark)
        1. EAD3 minor revision
        2. Discussions have been around the draft schema design principles and tag libraries- we do have a draft to share, included as a link in the minutes
        3. Implement some suggestions on how to manage schema development process in GitHub
        4. Change the process so we can do all updates in GitHub
        5. Testable version of the schema for EAC-CPF for over the summer- beta release by the end of the calendar year
        6. Get all the decisions into a version of the schema
        7. Silke: may not be ready with documentation GitHub by then
            1. Mark: just want to get the workflow in place, and we can refine over time
    4. Outreach (Adrian and Cory)
        1. First webinar hosted (pilot, with two sessions)
            1. April 17
            2. Posted to youtube with captioning
            3. Slides in GitHub
        2. Highlighting work and what’s on the roadmap for the year
        3. Exceeded capacity in both sessions
            1. Definitely interest with a lot of attendees
        4. Tested out the zoom account- prepared resources to streamline webinar hosting going forward
        5. Creating brief tutorials- pre-recorded tutorials
            1. Embed and link from the handbook
            2. EAS revision process (major/minor)
            3. Walkthrough of suggestion/request changes process
        6. Assessing the microsite on SAA
            1. Rationalize- trim down the microsite (proposal to share forthcoming)
        7. Context of translation, and posted on EAC-CPF, will be posted to EAD site
            1. https://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/schemata-and-tag-library/
        8. Adrian: hopefully get a proposal together to upgrade to actual webinar function
            1. Definitely being used that way
            2. Only one shared account? Use the single account for everything may not work
            3. Jess: add time on the end to allow for people to click on the survey link for feedback
    5. Related Standards (Karin)
        1. Still don’t have any updates
        2. Mark: still hope for joint thing
        3. Karin: with all other things, long answer for RiC isn’t very doable
4. Berlin Meeting Recap (Silke, 5 minutes)
    1. Talked about RiC- question of ontology and schema
        1. What’s the difference between ontology and schema
        2. May be useful/interesting for the community- may not have heard about this
    2. Documents available in drive and GitHub (probably)
    3. EGAD still working on draft- finalized in June or July- no official announcements about this
        1. Ontology and CM team- CM still working on the draft
        2. Florence- feedback concept model
    4. Mark: there’s a converter: [https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter](https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter)
    5. (and here are the sample EAC files:  [https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter/tree/master/ricoconverter/ricoconverter-release/src/main/resources/input-eac](https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter/tree/master/ricoconverter/ricoconverter-release/src/main/resources/input-eac)) 
5. @localType? (Karin, 20 minutes)
    1. What to do?
        1. Discussing @localtype in Berlin
            1. Use it in &lt;control> section- this question to schema team
            2. The name localtype- need to discuss all together
    2. Silke: use cases to have two types- already decided not to use localtype next to type- idea would be to have more distinct &lt;type> attributes
        1. Idea to get rid of localtype- came from people who use it in non-descriptive way: 2 groups of users- one that describe things with text, one that only use referencing attributes and uris to link/reference a description
        2. How do we handle this?- growing gap between the two groups in the community
    3. Karin: could solve like with level
        1. &lt;c> level, other level: also a way- if we decide- one being named sthtype- it’s a value list, sometimes not a value list given [fixed value lists]
    4. Wim: like the distinction &lt;type> generally accepted fixed list, &lt;localtype> not fixed: use that for additional implementation FA in EAD3- full description of additional finding aids
        1. Cant say how its going- but is good example of how you can make use of localtype, at least in EAD3
    5. What are the next steps?
        1. Small working group?
        2. Working document to be put up for Chicago?
        3. Mark: this is complicated- allow attributes in other namespaces, could fulfill needs of localtype
            1. Fulfill many needs- may need to break these out
            2. Prefer 2002 way- type on unitdate, restrict based on where it is
            3. Support google doc discussion, more time to discuss at Chicago
            4. Add in extra things remembered from meeting
    6. See Karin’s email- to be put into the drive as a working doc- Karin will send out a link with request for comments
6. Schema Design Principles Introduction (Mark, 10 minutes)
    1. Documentation Location and Linking
        1. Focus on the principles- state for comments
        2. https://docs.google.com/document/d/177NcqoUmxvfAb4BO9_CmwgeqzX3mdYZCb1GNdsqa9yY/edit?usp=sharing
        3. Will end up in GitHub, just not sure where it will be just yet
    2. Feedback by August
        1. Mark will send an email with the link to the listserv with soft deadline- please before the August meeting
        2. Maybe first week of July
        3. Take a look at the first 8 principles, not the documentation principles just yet
        4. Wim: go and align with one that works best, instead of turning everything upside down- think about community that has to implement this
            1. Already struggling, then we definitely shouldn’t make it harder
            2. Mark: EAD2002 is mostly implemented, but EAD3 is larger
            3. Mark: let’s have a vote about this? SAA surveymonkey
7. Chicago Update (Karin, 10 minutes)
    1. Original plan
        1. 3rd August EAC-CPF revision
        2. 4th August TS EAS
    2. Chicago: has gone virtual
    3. New plan
        1. Online via Zoom or other conferencing platform
            1. Have a number of accounts available within the group- sticking with zoom is easier
            2. Slack as a message platform? Slack channel where we can put things and discuss- covering a number of time zones
        2. Multiple Meetings
            1. Let’s have everything ready by first week June- have everything blocked off and decided
            2. Get your Chicago backgrounds ready
            3. Time zones, vacation availability
            4. Maximum 2 hour chunks
                1. Do EAC-CPF meeting first, then full TS-EAS meeting
                2. One week, EAC-CPF, then week after TS-EAS meetings
            5. TS-EAS usually open to all SAA members
                1. Have open sessions at the end of the day (30-60 mins to present, have people give feedback)
                2. Others just for the community
            6. Suggested dates: 27 July to end of SAA?
            7. Complication of session meetings- don’t know the timing on these
            8. Silke: will investigate timing, and then find out when the best time slots would be for week of 27 July
            9. Mark/Karin: schedule TS-EAS meetings after that
            10. Have open sessions during the general the week of 10 August
                1. Invite the new members
