# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 28 October 2019
- 10am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://duke.zoom.us/j/872850192

## Actions from last meeting
- Action 1: Caitlin to pick-up the question of liaison between TS-EAS and EAS section - IN PROGRESS (section meeting on 31 October) 
- Action 2: Karin and Mark to “retire”/archive EAD 2002 repository on GitHub - DONE (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002)
- Action 3: Karin and Mark to “retire”/archive EAD 1.0 repository on GitHub - DONE (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD1.0)
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 5: Kerstin to suggest process to regularly pick up on new issues being submitted and integrate with EAD Listserv - DONE (see details below)
- Action 6: Kerstin to prepare initial analysis of EAD3 implementation survey with regard to next steps for TS-EAS EAD team; together with Wim - PENDING (for next meeting)
- Action 7: Karin and Mark to see, if question of formal adoption of the rolling revision cycle can be added to agenda of TS-EAS October meeting - DONE
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow - PENDING confirmation of the workflow
- Action 9: #517 - Kerstin to prepare summary of conversation so far to post on EAD List - DONE (see details below)
- Action 10: #520 - Kerstin to refer this issue to next major revision / context of shared shema - DONE
- Action 11: #522 - Kerstin to assign to Karin and Mark as a bug fix - DONE
- Action 12: #523 - Kerstin to assign to Karin and Mark as a bug fix - DONE
- Action 13: #20 (EAS TL) - Kerstin to split this issue into separate ones that can be assigned to EAD team members - DONE
- Action 14: Karin to check for documentation that already exists with regard to Schematron and validation topic - DONE: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LGidYoOX5q3OQrZ1weYbwHCSuvYKj75C1S6PeQaH3-0/edit?usp=sharing
- Action 15: All to start thinking about what input/feedback the EAD Team would want from the Schema Team to facilitate communication towards the EAD community and to start evaluation of suggested changes in the context of a shared schema approach - referred to Schema Team
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team (call on Monday, 30 September) - IN PROGRESS (extended proposal document in preparation by Documentation/Outreach team)
- Action 17: Kerstin to send Doodles for next meetings - DONE
- Action 18: All to work on their EAS TL issues (#20 and #37 to #41) and add examples on GitHub ahead of next meeting - IN PROGRESS (see details below) 

## Feedback on rolling revision cycle
- Responses from 50% of TS-EAS members
- No objections
- Some suggestions for clarifications; all in line with what has been said already
  - Aim at making this calendar publicly-available, once confirmed
  - Add short preamble, indicating that this calendar will initially apply to EAD3 but intent is to apply it to all standards under TS-EAS' purview
  - Be open to refining the process as we go and adjust as necessary
  - Clarify that initial review and evaluation will be done by appropriate team, while TS-EAS as a whole confirms proposed solutions 
- Agreed to include the suggestions from TS-EAS members and update the text accordingly
- Agreed to keep suggested numbering of versions rather than following TS-DACS' approach of also including the year
- Agreed to then move the text to a more prominent place within TS-EAS' GitHub space
- Agreed to share new link with the whole TS-EAS, clarifying that we will assume non-response as approval
- Agreed that Karin and Mark will take the updated text to Standards Committee
- See updated text: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/rolling-revision-cycle.md

## Summary of #517
- See updated text: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/ListPostingIssue517.md
- Agreed on the following additions to the initial draft:
  - Add clarification of what each of the three options discussed so far would entail (no change, minor revision, major revision)
  - Add deadline according to annual calendar for minor revision, i.e. 31 December 2019
- Agreed to first announce the annual calendar for minor revisions (once confirmed) and to then follow up with this email as a first engagement of the current annual cycle

## Tag Library updates (issues #20 and #37 to #41)
- Confirmed the suggested examples provided in issues #37 and #38
  - Agreed to assign issues to Alex for next steps
- Agreed to include examples provided in #38 in a wrapper &lt;maintenanceevent> when adding the examples to the tag library

## Schematron validation (issues #467, #501, #508)
- Agreed that this is under the ownership of the Schema team
  - - Agreed to assign issues to Mark as the lead of Schema team
- Agreed that the EAD team will include the documentation in the EAD3 readme, once finalised

## Confirmation of next monthly calls
- Tuesday, 3 December 2019 - 9am EST, 2pm GMT, 3pm CET (90 minutes)
- Monday, 16 December 2019 - 9am EST, 2pm GMT, 3pm CET (90 minutes)
- Tuesday, 28 January 2020 - 9am EST, 2pm GMT, 3pm CET (60 minutes)
- Tuesday, 3 March 2020 - 9am EST, 2pm GMT, 3pm CET (90 minutes)

## Process to engage with new GitHub issues
- See updated text: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/ReviewOfNewGitHubIssues.md
- Agreed to suggested text in general
  - Agreed to add a note with regard to submission on GitHub on behalf of other community members
  - Agreed to indicate timeline when posting to EAD Listserv for community feedback, which coincides with the annual calendar for minor revisions

## Any other business
- Other open issues
  - EAD3 #484 - Schematron test for <quantity> values
    - Agreed to discuss during next meeting
  - EAD3 #498 - Schematron validation issue re elements in EAD namespace
    - Agreed to discuss during next meeting
  - EAD3 #503 - <descgrp> bug in undeprecated DTD
    - Agreed to discuss during next meeting
  - EAD3 #521 - Revised description and example for <rightsdeclaration>
    - Awaiting publication
  - EAS Tag Libraries #43 - Remove <thead> from <c12>
    - Agreed that this is a minor bug fix in the Tag Library, which can be taken care of in the context of other updates to the TL

## New and pending action items
- Action 1: Caitlin to pick-up the question of liaison between TS-EAS and EAS section - IN PROGRESS (section meeting on 31 October) 
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 6: Kerstin to prepare initial analysis of EAD3 implementation survey with regard to next steps for TS-EAS EAD team; together with Wim - PENDING (for next meeting)
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow - PENDING confirmation of the workflow
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team (call on Monday, 30 September) - IN PROGRESS (extended proposal document in preparation by Documentation/Outreach team)
- Action 18: All to work on their EAS TL issues (#20 and #37 to #41) and add examples on GitHub ahead of next meeting
  - Action 24: Alex, Caitlin, Kerstin and Wim to finalise their assigned TL issues (#20, #39, #40 and #41 respectively)
- Action 19: Kerstin to add suggestions to rolling revision cycle draft, move to a more prominent place and resend link to confirm approval - DONE
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - meeting on 21 November 
- Action 21: Kerstin to add suggestions to list post for #517 - DONE
- Action 22: Kerstin to re-assign #37 to Alex for inclusion of examples into TL - DONE
- Action 23: Kerstin to re-assign #38 to Alex for inclusion of examples into TL - DONE
- Action 25: Kerstin to assign #43 to Alex for correction in TL - DONE
- Action 26: Alex to finalise TL updates as per TL issue #37, #38 and #43
- Action 27: Kerstin to assign issues #467, #501 and #508 to Mark to indicate ownership being with Schema team - DONE
- Action 28: Kerstin to add suggestions to process to engage with new GitHub submissions and put on GitHub - DONE

