# EAD Subteam Minutes, 2017-12-20
Time: 10 a.m. EST 

## Attendees
- Noah
- [others...hopefully]

### Introductions (Noah)
- Roll call, new team members

### Coordinating EAD3 1.1 release
- Outline release process workflow / timeline (testing, comment period, tag libray updates, etc.)
- Summary of documentation team meeting from 12/14

### EAD3 1.1 Comment period logistics
- Where to publicize comment period?
- Protocol for reviewing comments, responding, and/or incorporating changes?

### EAD3 1.1 Tag Library updates
- Identify EAD3 Tag Library liaison to work with Documentation subteam
- Discuss mechanics for TL updates (pull requests?)
- How to indicate new features/changes in TL and release notes?

### Review SAA micro-site and standards portal info on EAD3
- https://www2.archivists.org/groups/technical-subcommittee-on-encoded-archival-description-ead-disbanded/encoded-archival-description-ead
- Any updates needed? (add github links?)

###Other business?

Action Items:
