# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 21 July 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer 
- Apologies: Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85332151612

## 1. Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - This might be shared with TS-EAS at some point during the two weeks of meetings between 27 July and 7 August
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April) - IN PROGRESS
  - There have been some delays due to COVID-19 and (now) slowly getting institutions ready to open up again. 
  - DECISION: Given the current unprecedented times as well as looking at the circumstance that we do not need these examples urgently, we agreed to work with a flexible deadline for the time being. Caitlin has the team's approval to play it by ear and agree individual deadlines with the colleagues.
  - Mark pointed to the LoC's recent move to EAD3 only (while they have been providing EAD 2002 and EAD3 as a download format so far). This might (1) provide a good case study, maybe even for a webinar of sharing experiences, and (2) make LoC a perfect partner when it comes to consulting on EAD3 during the intended revision.
  - ACTION: Kerstin to contact Glenn to get more information on LoC's work with EAD3.
  - ACTION: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar.
- Action 35: Karin and Mark to confirm next steps with Standards Committee re reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O - DONE
  - The decision has been taken to provider a joint feedback on behalf of SAA and its TS. TS-EAS will discuss next steps during the Annual Meeting call on 7 August.
- Action 57: Kerstin and Silke to agree a date/time for another joint between EAD and EAC-CPF Teams - DONE
  - The meeting was held on 10 July. Topics discussed during the meeting were:
    - `<nameEntry>` in EAC-CPF and the various `<*name>` elements in EAD3
    - `<place>` / `<placeEntry>` in EAC-CPF and `<geogname>` in EAD3, along with options to encode geographic coordinates
    - `<span>` in EAC-CPF and `<emph>` in EAD3
  - Kerstin shared the meeting's topic paper with the team and noted to the EAC team meeting on 29 July, where EAD3 reconciliation will again be the main topic. All TS-EAS members are invited to this call, which will look at:
    - Shared elements:
      - `<address>` with `<addressLine>`
      - `<dateSet>`
      - `<function>` and `<occupation>` with `<term>`
      - `<legalStatus>`
      - `<part>`
      - `<bioghist>` and its sub-elements (this is to start the conversation and to prepare for the call on 6 August with the whole TS)
    - Similar (and shared):
      - `<place>`, `<placeEntry>`, `<geogname>` plus ways to encode geographic coordinates
      - `<span>` and `<emph>`
      - `<outline>`, `<level>`, `<list>` and `<item>
- Action 59: Kerstin to check with Caitlin about EAS Section's plans for next steps (publication of survey results and potential follow-up) - DONE
  - EAS Section has been in touch with TS-EAS' Outreach team on possible next steps
  - It's likely that there will be an according update during the EAS Section meeting on 29 July, 1.30 Central Time
  - ACTION: Caitlin to take care of TS-EAS being kept in the loop for login deails to possibly join the call 
- Action 60: Alex to take care of the bug fix for [#69](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/69) in the context of other TL tasks - DONE
  - Pull request set, awaiting approval
- Action 61: Kerstin to notify Glenn for direct fix of [#70](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/70) on LoC website - DONE
  - Update online
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 63: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue to rename `@langcode` to `@languagecode` - DONE - [#530](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/530)  
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languagedeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 65: Kerstin to update [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520) - DONE  
- Action 66: All to look out for question of having a local or other type option for `<maintenancestatus>` and `<publicationstatus>` specifically in the context of the conversation around `@localtype` respectively allowing attributes from other namespaces
  - This will be discussed with the whole TS-EAS during the Annual Meeting call on 6 August.
- Action 67: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issues for the changes to `<maintenancestatus>`, `<publicationstatus>`, `<agenttype>` and `<eventtype>` - DONE - [#531](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/531), [#532](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/532), [#533](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/533), [#534](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/534) 
- Action 68: Silke to report back to EAC-CPF team on `<recordid>` - DONE - [#82](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/82)
- Action 69: Kerstin and Silke to prepare topic paper for language attribution on content or wrapper level elements in advance of the joint EAC and EAD team meeting in July
  - This will be discussed with the EAC team during the call on 27 July.
- Action 70: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue for `@certainty`, `@notafter` and `@notbefore` on single date elements - DONE - [#535](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/535)

## 2. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- Caitlin (EAS Section)
  - See above under action 59
- Noah (Outreach Team)
  - Noah continues working on the draft and will then ask for another round of feedback

## 3. Upcoming EAD revision
- In preparation for TS-EAS Annual Meeting, 7 August, we had a look at the [SAA Procedures](https://www2.archivists.org/governance/handbook/section7/groups/Standards/Procedures-Review-Approval-SAA-Developed-Standard)
  - DECISION: In order to work on this together, Kerstin will copy the contents of the [Proposal for Standards Development form](https://www2.archivists.org/standards/proposal-for-standards-development) into a GoogleDoc
  - An initial version of this GoogleDoc was shared during the meeting to specifically have a look at the aspects of timeline and budget.
  - We agreed to start the process after the Annual Meeting in order to follow SAA's guidelines with regard to reviewing a standard every 5 years, though we will suggest to focus on an evaluation of the status quo (EAC-CPF revision and its impact on EAD3, the EAD3 implementation survey, EAS Section's survey, RiC) during the year 2020/21 and only start with a call for comments - provided the revision finds approval in general - only in summer 2021.
  - ACTION: Kerstin to recreate proposal form in GoogleDoc.
- The two EAD team members, whose term is up for renewal in 2020, will both continue.
- Membership in the EAD team will be discussed during the TS-EAS Annual Meeting on 5 August, which will also include the two new members of TS-EAS.

## 4. Review EAC-CPF proposals for assertion description and relations from EAD3 perspective
- This has been postponed and moved to the September meeting, which will have a look at the proposal for `<relations>` first.

## 5. Any other business
- Doodle polls have been set up to find dates for the next EAD team meetings:
  - September - https://doodle.com/poll/7gb2vpqq2xicq5h4
  - October - https://doodle.com/poll/d8s8a2dvpw6zfvh7
  - November - https://doodle.com/poll/zg5xfcy5rm5g5nih
  - December - https://doodle.com/poll/qg3u3qu5ume85tqn
- Reminder to reply to the survey with regard to naming convention for EAS (deadline: 3 August)

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April) - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languagedeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 66: All to look out for question of having a local or other type option for `<maintenancestatus>` and `<publicationstatus>` specifically in the context of the conversation around `@localtype` respectively allowing attributes from other namespaces
  - This will be discussed with the whole TS-EAS during the Annual Meeting call on 6 August.
- Action 69: Kerstin and Silke to prepare topic paper for language attribution on content or wrapper level elements in advance of the joint EAC and EAD team meeting in July
  - This will be discussed with the EAC team during the call on 27 July.
- Action 71: Kerstin to contact Glenn to get more information on LoC's work with EAD3
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar
- Action 73: All to consider joining the EAC team meeting on 29 July for the EAD3 reconciliation topic
- Action 74: Caitlin to take care of TS-EAS being kept in the loop for login deails to possibly join the EAS Section's meeting on 29 July 
- Action 75: Kerstin to recreate proposal form in GoogleDoc as an initial step for EAD revision
- Action 76: All to fill in Doodle polls for the next team calls (September to December 2020)
