# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 16 December 2019
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://duke.zoom.us/j/414954527

## Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow - see "Update on rolling revision cycle" below
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team - IN PROGRESS
  - Additional note: Draft charge has been distributed to all TS-EAS members on 17 December
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 29: Caitlin to check with EAS Section about potential feedback/input by EAD team on EAS Section's planned survey - see "EAS Section Survey"
- Action 30: Kerstin to send email about #517 to EAD listserv - DONE - see "EAD3 #517"
- Action 31: Kerstin to assign TL issues #39, #40, and #41 to Alex for inclusion of examples into 1.1.1 tag library - DONE - see "Update on patch release EAD3 1.1.1"
- Action 32: Alex to finalise TL updates as per the above TL issues - DONE - see "Update on patch release EAD3 1.1.1"
- Action 33: Kerstin to put Caitlin in contact with Wim concerning potential contacts to EAD3 users for examples - DONE
- Action 34: Caitlin to reach out to EAD3 users (as follow-up of action 33) to start gathering examples
  - Email addresses of 10 institutions have been shared on 15 December 
  - Might make more sense to start with contacting these EAD3 users in the new year only rather than before the holidays
- Action 35: Kerstin to check with Karin and Mark about TS-EAS' strategy with regard to reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O in early 2020 - DONE
  - Might be task for Related Standards team
  - Meeting to re-establish this team planned for 4 February 2020
- Action 36: Kerstin to comment and close issue #484 - DONE
- Action 37: Kerstin to comment and re-assign issues #498 and #503 - DONE

## Update on patch release EAD3 1.1.1
- Status of schema update, review and testing (see https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/milestone/5 and https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v1.1.1)
  - Schema changes finalised and pull request to merge into master branch created
  - No further review and testing required
- Status of tag library update, review and testing (see https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/milestone/1)
  - TEI finalised
  - Alex to regenerate HTML and PDF outputs and create pull request
  - No further review and testing required
- Next steps for publication
  - Patch already was approved during the Standards meeting on 21 November, i.e. email to our Standards liaison is more for information that this is going ahead as agreed
  - Kerstin to coordinate publication of updated schemas and tag library with liaisons from Standards Committee and Library of Congress
    - For Standards: Eric Sonnenberg 
    - For LoC: Glenn Gardner 
  - Kerstin to announce via EAD listserv once on LoC website
  - Kerstin to ask Caitlin to send it out via EAS Section list
  
## Update on rolling revision cycle
- Review of proposal from Standards Committee with regard to minor and major changes
  - Note: this is about single changes, not - necessarily - about minor and major revisions, which could comprise of several changes combined
- With the proposal from Standards currently being reviewed and possibly revised, EAD team agrees that it is too early to determine whether - and how - TS-EAS' rolling revision cycle would need to be adapted
  - As far as it is possible to say based on the current status of the proposal, there shouldn't be too much that would require adaptation
  - Next meeting of Standards - initially planned for 19 December 2019 - has now been postponed to 16 January 2020
  - The aim seems to be to have the proposal finalised in January in order to submit to SAA Council for approval
    - Reminder to all to have a look at the document and comment, where necessary
- Visualisation drafted by Noah
  - Initial approval by EAD team with the addition of community testing during May/June and changing the header to be more generally about EAS, not specifically about EAD3
  - Noah to finalise draft and to send to all TS-EAS members for feedback

## EAS Section Survey
- See https://pennstate.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_esXwaNgSJRKVYFL
- Deadline for feedback on 31 January 2020
- Detailed discussion postponed until next meeting

## EAD3 #517
- https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/517
- Comments received so far:
  - Have emphasised concerns with regard to data exchange and interoperability (“...should not replace the core requirements for the c/did...”)
  - Have brought forward a more concrete encoding example (using MARC21 directly within &lt;c>), but have not brought forward any additional use cases from other community members
  - Have suggested an extension of &lt;odd> to accommodate other namespace metadata
    - With the addition (from Mark) to maybe remove &lt;objectxmlwrap> and open some elements (&lt;relation>, &lt;source>, &lt;odd>) to encorporate other namespace elements directly
- Suggestion to contact SNAC and Kalliope representatives directly to ask for examples as they might make quite extensive use of &lt;objectxmlwrap> in their contexts
- Alex and Mark to - possibly - put in examples from their institutions to further conversation

## Any other business
- Next meeting on Tuesday, 28 January 2020, will be a joint meeting of EAC-CPF, EAD and Schema teams on the topic of Shared Schema / EAD3 reconciliation
- All to review proposed decision tree ahead of the meeting (as shared via email already)
- All to look out for more detailed proposals for selected elements with regard to potential changes for reconciliation
  - We aim to share these by 17 January
