# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 15 December 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS - see topic 4
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 88: Kerstin to see if there are any examples for attributes included in the sample files in [EAS Section’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/saa-ead-roundtable/ead3-toolkit), which are not yet covered in the current TL-s - DONE
  - No additional attributes' examples in these sample files
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meetings from January to June 2021 - See topic 5
- Action 93: Kerstin to prepare draft text announcing the EAD revision for the December meeting - See topic 2
- Action 94: Kerstin to update EAD3 issue [#544](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/544) - DONE
- Action 95: Kerstin to update EAD2002 issues [#1](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/issues/1) and [#2](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/issues/2) - DONE
- Action 96: Mark to take ownership of EAD2002 issues #1 and #2 for Schema team - DONE

## 2. Upcoming EAD revision
- Update and current status of proposal submission
  - Standards Committee confirmed the approval of our proposal during their meeting on 10 December
  - As this is the revision of an existing standard, there is no need for the proposal to go to Council as well, i.e. the confirmation from Standards Committee gives us the “Go ahead”
- Draft email for announcing the EAD revision including brief questionnaire for temperature check with the community
  - Adapted the questionnaire to be shorter and to be more open, i.e. without branching between those who use and those who do not use EAD3
  - Adapted email text accordingly
  - ACTION: Kerstin to add GDPR note on last question
  - ACTION: Kerstin to contact Adrian and Cory for distribution

## 3. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- [Minor release](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/pull/72)
  - [#68](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/68) - Removing ISBN(s) from TEI
    - ACTION: Karin and Mark to check about the detailed workflow with SAA Publications and with TS-DAS about their experience
  - [#73](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/73) - Code highlighting for examples
    - Alex and Karin to look at this, though more a topic for future wishlist
    - If adopted, this will be applicable for EAD (same as for EAC) as both TLs will be using the same transformation
  - [#78](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/78) - Entity Semantic Units for PREMIS
    - Not relevant for EAD

## 4. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAS Section
  - Analysis of EAS Section’s survey has been started and will be finalised for the January meeting
  - ACTION: Kerstin to get in contact with Adrian and Cory to check in about any updates from EAS Section and possible follow-up from the survey
- Outreach Team
  - Outreach team to meet tomorrow (16 December)
  - ACTION: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the webinar/panel
    - Wishlist for topics: 
      - Use case for using EAD3 via collection management system only
      - Use case for using EAD3 via collection management system plus XML/text editor
      - Maybe also a use case to present reasons for not moving towards EAD3 (other than the general aspect of such an update potentially being a huge amount of work)?

## 5. Any other business
- Next EAD team meetings
  - DECISION: EAD team will move its meetings to the third Friday each month from January 2021 onwards
  - DECISION: Agreed the date for the next meeting to be 22 January
    - Pending: date for meeting in February as we need to avoid collision with the quarterly TS-EAS meeting
    - Further dates:
      - 19 March
      - 16 April
      - 21 May
      - 18 June
  - ACTION: Kerstin to update the existing Doodle poll for February and check with Karin on setting up Zoom meetings for meeting January and from March to June 

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS
  - To be prepared for the December meeting
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meeting in February 2021 - IN PROGRESS
- Action 97: Kerstin to add GDPR note on last question of EAD revision announcment questionnaire - DONE
- Action 98: Kerstin to contact Adrian and Cory for distribution - DONE
- Action 99: Karin and Mark to check about the detailed workflow around ISBN-s with SAA Publications and with TS-DAS regarding their recent experience
- Action 100: Kerstin to get in contact with Adrian and Cory to check in about any updates from EAS Section and possible follow-up from the survey - DONE
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel
- Action 102: Kerstin to update the existing Doodle poll for February and check with Karin on setting up Zoom meetings for meeting January and from March to June - DONE
