# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 23 September 2019
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Noah Huffman
- Apologies: Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://duke.zoom.us/j/334041631

## Current status
### General aspects
- All information on the EAD team’s work can be found on GitHub:
- Subteam notes (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/ead-subteam) with meeting minutes, reports to TS-EAS and working documents
- List of issues on EAD3 (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues)
- List of issues on TS-EAS Tag Libraries, which might include some on EAD3 (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries)
- First point of contact for issues on TS-EAS Tag Libraries is Alex, who will assign to EAD and EAC-CPF team leads, if input is required.
- The repositories on EAD 2002 (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002) and EAD 1.0 (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD1.0) will be archived, i.e. only have viewing access in future.
- For the repository on EAD2002 to EAD3 XSLT (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002toEAD3) responsibility is with the Schema Team, who will assign to EAD team lead, if input is required.
### EAD Subteam Annual Report, July 2019
- See details on selected topics further down below in the agenda.
- Decision to have more detailed analysis of EAD3 implementation survey (http://www.loc.gov/ead/EAD3_Implementation_Survey_Results_and_Discussion_20190320.pdf) for potential next steps.
### Rolling revision cycle
- Stems from differentiation between minor vs major releases, i.e. when does TS-EAS need to confirm with Standards Committee
- Documents main steps with regard to managing a minor release
- Aim to get formal adoption from TS-EAS (during October meeting or as follow-up) 
- Should be combined with milestones and assignments in GitHub 
- Considering to create illustration of the workflow (similar to DACS): https://github.com/saa-ts-dacs/dacs/blob/master/DACSRevisionProcess.png
### Open issues on GitHub
- EAD3 #517 - Allow &lt;objectxmlwrap> with &lt;c> and &lt;cxx>: decision to prepare summary of conversation so far to post on EAD List for community input especially with regard to examples and use cases
- EAD3 #520 - &lt;script> might be security vulnerability: decision to revisit in the context of the shared schema work and consider renaming as part of a major revision
- EAD3 #522 - Allow &lt;foreign> in &lt;ref>: decision to classify as bug fix and assign to Schema team for implementation as part of a rolling revision
- EAD3 #523 - &lt;c12> not validating in schema: decision to classify as bug fix and assign to Schema team for implementation as part of a rolling revision
- EAS Tag Libraries #20 - EAD3 elements missing examples: decision to divide the work on this among the members of EAD team and to create separate issues for ease of assignment; examples should be taken from real-life EAD files and ideally consider sub-elements and attributes as far as possible; suggestions for examples are to be posted on GitHub for transparency
### Other open issues on GitHub
- Feedback and updates have been requested for EAD3 issues #467, #484, #498, #501, #503, and #508 to clarify their status 
- EAD3 #521 - Revised description and example for &lt;rightsdeclaration>: has been taken care of by Schema team and is awaiting publication
  
## Next steps
- From EAD Subteam Report (July 2019)
  - Seek formal adoption of Proposed Calendar for Managing Minor Revisions to EAD (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/ead-rolling-revision-cycle-DRAFT.md)
  - Develop, publish, and advertise EAD3 Validation FAQ / Guidelines (e.g. how to validate using schematron): potentially to be combined with EAD3 issues #467, #501 and #508; see also: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LGidYoOX5q3OQrZ1weYbwHCSuvYKj75C1S6PeQaH3-0/edit?usp=sharing
  - Work with Schema Team to brainstorm ways to simplify the maintenance of schemas and tag libraries: revisit question in a separate call (next meeting) and in connection with shared schema work
  - Work with Documentation/Outreach team to explore other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3
  - Work with SAA's EAS Section to update EAD-related information on SAA pages (Example: https://www2.archivists.org/groups/encoded-archival-standards-section/frequently-asked-questions-about-ead-and-ead3): check in the broader context of re-establishing collaboration between TS-EAS and EAS Section

## Day and time for monthly calls
- Suggested weeks (to align with meetings of EAC-CPF and Schema teams):
  - Week commencing 28 Oct 2019 or 4 Nov 2019
  - Week commencing 25 Nov 2019 or 2 Dec 2019
  - Week commencing 16 Dec 2019
  - Week commencing 27 Jan 2020 or 3 Feb 2020
  - Week commencing 24 Feb 2020 or 2 Mar 2020
- Agreed to aim at same time of the day as today's meeting
- Agreed on Mondays/Tuesdays as the most suitable days of the week

## Any other business
n/a 

## Action items
- Action 1: Caitlin to pick-up the question of liaison between TS-EAS and section: regular liaison model, standards questionnaire and options to collaborate, update to microsites 
- Action 2: Karin and Mark to “retire”/archive EAD 2002 repository on GitHub
- Action 3: Karin and Mark to “retire”/archive EAD 1.0 repository on GitHub
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub
- Action 5: Kerstin to suggest process to regularly pick up on new issues being submitted and integrate with EAD Listserv
- Action 6: Kerstin to prepare initial analysis of EAD3 implementation survey with regard to next steps for TS-EAS EAD team; together with Wim
- Action 7: Karin and Mark to see, if question of formal adoption of the rolling revision cycle can be added to agenda of TS-EAS October meeting
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow
- Action 9: #517 - Kerstin to prepare summary of conversation so far to post on EAD List
- Action 10: #520 - Kerstin to refer this issue to next major revision / context of shared shema - DONE
- Action 11: #522 - Kerstin to assign to Karin and Mark as a bug fix - DONE
- Action 12: #523 - Kerstin to assign to Karin and Mark as a bug fix - DONE
- Action 13: #20 (EAS TL) - Kerstin to split this issue into separate ones that can be assigned to EAD team members - DONE
- Action 14: Karin to check for documentation that already exists with regard to Schematron and validation topic - DONE: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LGidYoOX5q3OQrZ1weYbwHCSuvYKj75C1S6PeQaH3-0/edit?usp=sharing
- Action 15: All to start thinking about what input/feedback the EAD Team would want from the Schema Team to facilitate communication towards the EAD community and to start evaluation of suggested changes in the context of a shared schema approach
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team (call on Monday, 30 September)
- Action 17: Kerstin to send Doodles for next meetings - DONE
- Action 18: All to work on their EAS TL issues (#20 and #37 to #41) and add examples on GitHub ahead of next meeting  
