# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 3 December 2019
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Kerstin Arnold, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Karin Bredenberg, Mark Custer, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://duke.zoom.us/j/269557929

## Actions from last meeting
- Action 1: Caitlin to pick-up the question of liaison between TS-EAS and EAS section 
  - IN PROGRESS; 
  - Section met on 31 October led by new co-chairs; agreed to update to section website and (potentially) review the draft for rolling revision cycle; also approved for Caitlin to be the liaison with TS-EAS; next meeting on 6 December likely to concentrate on EAS survey (idea is to have this as an ongoing temperature check);
  - Caitlin will report back during next EAD team meeting on 16 December.
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 6: Kerstin to prepare initial analysis of EAD3 implementation survey with regard to next steps for TS-EAS EAD team - DONE (see details below)
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow
  - Noah reached out to TS-DACS to potentially re-use their template for illustration;
  - Will have draft to share for next meeting.
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team - IN PROGRESS
- Action 19: Kerstin to add suggestions to rolling revision cycle draft, move to a more prominent place and resend link to confirm approval - DONE - now available via EAD3 Readme (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3)
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - meeting on 21 November - PENDING
  - Still awaiting approval by Standards Committee for rolling revision cycle;
  - But we have the go-ahead from both the Standards Committee and SAA Council to distribute the 1.1.1 patch release
- Action 21: Kerstin to add suggestions to list post for #517 - DONE
  - See https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/ListPostingIssue517.md
  - Decided to send this via EAD listserv now independent from rolling revision cycle
  - Deadline for feedback will be extended accordingly until 31 January 2020
- Action 22: Kerstin to re-assign #37 to Alex for inclusion of examples into TL - DONE
- Action 23: Kerstin to re-assign #38 to Alex for inclusion of examples into TL - DONE
- Action 24: Alex, Caitlin, Kerstin and Wim to finalise their assigned TL issues: #20, #39, #40 and #41 respectively - DONE for #39, #40 and #41; #20 will be done in the context of the TL update generally 
- Action 25: Kerstin to assign #43 to Alex for correction in TL - DONE
- Action 26: Alex to finalise TL updates as per TL issue #37, #38 and #43 - DONE
- Action 27: Kerstin to assign issues #467, #501 and #508 to Mark to indicate ownership being with Schema team - DONE
- Action 28: Kerstin to add suggestions to process to engage with new GitHub submissions and put on GitHub - DONE - now available via EAD3 Readme (https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3)

## Update on rolling revision cycle
- Still awaiting final approval by Standards Committee

## Update on patch release 1.1.1
- Standards Committee meeting on 21 November approved the patch release
- Schema issues included in patch 1.1.1: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/milestone/5
- Tag Library issues includes in patch 1.1.1: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/milestone/1 

## Tag Library updates (#20 plus #37 to #41)
- Examples provided in issues #39, #40 and in #41 approved (including smaller corrections/additions) during the meeting
- Alex has already created a new draft for schema updates (<rightsdeclaration> and examples, where they were provided so far) 
- Will add further examples from the above issues during the next few days

## Follow-up from EAD3 Implementation Survey
- Categorised the next steps mentioned in the implementation survey into actions for EAD team specifically and actions for outreach team with support from EAD team
- EAD team to flesh out examples from tag library and to gather real examples from users of EAD3
  - Create directory on GitHub with readme.md introducing examples and linking to specific parts of files for illustration
  - Use sample set of files to e.g. point suppliers to ("if you want to create EAD3 export from your system, here's some orientation")
- EAD team to suggest taking the lead in evaluating RiC-CM in combination with RiC-O once published (early 2020) with regard to its potential connection to EAD3 (and other EAS)
- Any engagement and training activities should rather go via Outreach team
  - This would include potential creation of webinars as well as direct engagement with consortia/aggregators
  - Engagement with suppliers is seen as rather a minor topic for TS-EAS and nothing to focus on too heavily
  - As for potential means/ways of communication, EAD team feel that another survey might not be necessary and that it might make more sense to see if we can be part of EAS Section's survey
  - Furthermore, EAD team agreed to aim at making more consistent use of EAD listserv to ask questions

## Issue #484
- EAD team felt that this might be too strict (as is mentioned already in one of the comments in the issue)
- As it furthermore doesn't seem to be based on strong community requirements, EAD team decided to close this issue for now

## Issue #498
- EAD team decided to move this to Schema team in order to be dealt with in the context of the work on schema design principles. 
- Assign to Mark as the Schem team lead.

## Issue #503
- EAD team decided to move this to Schema team in order to be dealt with in the context of the work on schema design principles. 
- Assign to Mark as the Schem team lead.

## New and pending action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 8: Noah to suggest illustrative way to show the rolling revision cycle workflow - FOR NEXT MEETING
- Action 16: Karin and Mark to discuss question of exploring other ways to encourage adoption of EAD3 with Documentation/Outreach team - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - meeting on 21 November - PENDING
- Action 29: Caitlin to check with EAS Section about potential feedback/input by EAD team on EAS Section's planned survey
- Action 30: Kerstin to send email about #517 to EAD listserv - DONE
- Action 31: Kerstin to assign TL issues #39, #40, and #41 to Alex for inclusion of examples into 1.1.1 tag library - DONE
- Action 32: Alex to finalise TL updates as per the above TL issues
- Action 33: Kerstin to put Caitlin in contact with Wim concerning potential contacts to EAD3 users for examples
- Action 34: Caitlin to reach out to EAD3 users (as follow-up of action 33) to start gathering examples
- Action 35: Kerstin to check with Karin and Mark about TS-EAS' strategy with regard to reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O in early 2020
- Action 36: Kerstin to comment and close issue #484 - DONE
- Action 37: Kerstin to comment and re-assign issues #498 and #503 - DONE
