# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 14 September 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman 
- Apologies: Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen

## 1. Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April) - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languagedeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 66: All to look out for question of having a local or other type option for `<maintenancestatus>` and `<publicationstatus>` specifically in the context of the conversation around `@localtype` respectively allowing attributes from other namespaces - DONE
  - Discussed with the whole TS-EAS during the Annual Meeting call on 6 August.
  - `@localType` will be kept; attributes from other namespaces will be allowed.
  - ...Type and ...Status elements within `<control>` section will be transformed into attributes; `@maintenanceStatus` and `@publicationStatus` to be added to `<control>` directly
- Action 69: Kerstin and Silke to prepare topic paper for language attribution on content or wrapper level elements in advance of the joint EAC and EAD team meeting in July - DONE
  - Discussed with the EAC team during the call on 27 July.
  - Language attribution will be made available with all non-empty elements.
- Action 71: Kerstin to contact Glenn to get more information on LoC's work with EAD3 - IN PROGRESS
  - Initial contact made with leadership of LoC's EAD group, but needs follow-up with more details
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 73: All to consider joining the EAC team meeting on 29 July for the EAD3 reconciliation topic - DONE
  - Thanks to Alex for joining
- Action 74: Caitlin to take care of TS-EAS being kept in the loop for login deails to possibly join the EAS Section's meeting on 29 July  - DONE
- Action 75: Kerstin to recreate proposal form in GoogleDoc as an initial step for EAD revision - DONE
- Action 76: Kerstin to check with Silke about the submission form for reviewing EAC-CPF - DONE
- Action 77: Karin and Mark to check with Felicia about timelines for budgetary support requests to SAA - DONE
  - Deadline for funding: 1 March each year for the next fiscal year (1 July to 30 June)
  - See [proceedings](https://www2.archivists.org/governance/leaderresources/funding-resources-for-SAA-groups)
- Action 78: Kerstin to check with Silke about timelines for budgetary support requests to ICA (from the experience with EAC-CPF revision) - DONE
- Action 79: All to fill in Doodle polls for the next team calls (September to December 2020) - DONE
  - 20 October
  - 9 November
  - 15 December

## 2. TS-EAS Open meeting, 13 August 
- Slidedeck shared in GoogleDrive
- Notes published on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/TS-EAS-Notes/SAA20/TS%20EAS%20Open%20meeting/2020-08-13_TS-EAS_OpenMeeting_SAA2020_Notes.md)
- EAD related topics highlighted during the meeting:
  - Presented rolling revision cycle and EAD3 1.1.1 release
  - Talked about EAD3 reconciliation work in the context of major revision of EAC-CPF and its impact on a future major revision of EAD
    - Mentioned specifically assertion description, relations, dates and places, and camelCase decision
  - Announced intent of major revision of EAD
    - Indicative timeline, initial steps, community engagement

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAS Section
  - See EAS Sections’ [microsite](https://www2.archivists.org/groups/encoded-archival-standards-section/eas-2019-2020-section-survey-results) for additional data on the section’s survey
    - Copy of anonymised data in GoogleDrive for further editing and review by the team
      - ACTION: Kerstin to start further analysis
    - Specific interest in the relationship between standards and collection management systems - is there potential to get community engagement around updates? especially for Open Source?
  - Collaboration - together with Outreach team - on potential follow-up in the context of preparing for the major revision of EAD
  - Topic(s) to bring to the joint meeting with EAS Section on 15 September 
    - Cook Book - define responsibilities between EAS Section and TS-EAS - how to collaborate
    - Similar question for Best Practice document(s)
    - Similar question for Transformation / help for institutions using “the usual MS software or similar”
    - ACTION: Kerstin to bring these topics to the shared meeting and to report back to EAD team during next call
- Outreach Team
  - First web tutorial online - [Submission of bug reports and feature requests](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DKe1R35EQ3k)
  - Further web tutorials in preparation (Revision cycle, EAD on a shoestring…) 
  - [GitHub page](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/Submitting-an-Issue-or-Feature-Request) to collect and link to these web tutorials 

##4. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- [Minor release](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/pull/72); includes: 
  - https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/62
  - https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/63
  - https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/64
  - #63 requires examples
    - Decided that this will also have to include a review of the potential overlap of attributes between EAC and EAD
      - ACTION: Kerstin to review examples for attributes (as part of elements’ examples)
    - Decided to ask within the TS-EAS
      - ACTION: Kerstin to prepare call for examples - potentially announce (or remind) colleagues during TS-EAS call on 9 October
    - ACTION: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about this being in preparation

## 5. Upcoming EAD revision
- Further review of the various sections of the [Proposal for Standards Development form](https://www2.archivists.org/standards/proposal-for-standards-development) in GoogleDrive
  - ACTION (relates to Action 75): Kerstin to finalise proposal form by 25 September latest for review by the team by 2 October; share with whole TS-EAS ahead of quarterly meeting on 9 October

## 6. Any other business
- Next EAD team meetings, same time as today:
  - 20 October
  - 9 November
  - 15 December

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April) - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languagedeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a reminder for future activities.
- Action 71: Kerstin to contact Glenn to get more information on LoC's work with EAD3 - IN PROGRESS
  - Initial contact made with leadership of LoC's EAD group, but needs follow-up with more details
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey
- Action 81: Kerstin to bring EAD topics to joint meeting with EAS Section and report back during next meeting - IN PROGRESS
- Action 82: Kerstin to review examples for attributes (as part of elements’ examples), [#63](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/63) - DONE
- Action 83: Kerstin to prepare call for examples where we don't have any in the TL at the moment - PENDING feedback on action 84
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation
- Action 85: Kerstin to finalise proposal form by 25 September - IN PROGRESS
  - Action 85a: All to review and provide feedback by 2 October
  - Action 85b: Kerstin to share with whole TS-EAS ahead of quarterly meeting on 9 October
