# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 19 March 2021
- 10am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen
- Apologies: Anna McCormick, Caitlin Rizzo 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Now also includes action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 72: Kerstin to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - See topic 3
  - Now also includes action 117: Volunteers for joining the preparations for this webinar/panel session
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 103: Kerstin to check with TS-EAS members if any of their institutions would be willing to host a face-to-face meeting - DONE - no further potential hosts came forward
- Action 107: Silke to provide updated version of Shared Elements document as a starting point for review by EAD Team - DONE - link shared with the team via Google Drive
- Action 110: Noah to keep an eye on responses from "Use and usage of EAD" survey and to thank any respondents who agreed to be contacted - IN PROGRESS - 5 new respondents
- Action 111: Kerstin to update funding request document as per today's discussion - DONE 
- Action 112: Everyone to review the document until 19 February and to comment where applicable - DONE - no further comments received
- Action 113: Mark to check with Mike about any similar funding requests in the context of the EAD revision towards EAD3 - DONE
  - Budget documents received for the EAD revision between 2011 and 2015
  - Includes funding request submitted to Delmas Foundation
  - Includes note on support by Nationaal Archief
- Action 114: Kerstin to check with Daniel along similar lines - DONE
  - Funding was mainly external, i.e. non-SAA
- Action 115: Karin and Kerstin to finalise and submit w/c 22 February - DONE
  - Submitted on 23 February
  - Receipt confirmed
  - Will be discussed by SAA Council in May as part of the full budget proposal
- Action 116: Everyone to consider volunteering for preparing one of the three topics for the team discussions in April, May, and June - see topic 4
- Action 118: Kerstin, Alex and Karin to prepare document for submission of minor revision of the EAD3 TL - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 120: Karin to set up Zoom meetings for upcoming EAD Team meetings - DONE
- Action 121: Kerstin to forward invitations once the Zoom meetings have been set up - DONE

## 2. Minor release: EAD3 Tag Library
- Draft for minor revision request finalised - for information
  - Confirmed by Schema Team during their meeting on 9 March
- Next steps
  - Kerstin to review draft TL (and consider any further attributes examples)
  - Alex to prepare everything for release on GitHub 
  - Aiming at submission to Standards Committee for 8 April
- Additional EAD 2002 revision request for schema change needed
  - Kerstin to prepare draft ahead of next meeting of Schema Team on 13 April
  - Mark to prepare everything for testing
  - EAD Team to confirm who will be available for testing during their next meeting on 16 April
  - Aiming at submission to Standards Committee for May or June meeting

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAD3 use cases webinar/panel session
  - Karin will be involved to certain extent as the co-chair liaison for the Outreach Team
  - Noah confirmed that he will be available to join the preparations for this webinar/panel session

## 4. Kick-off EAD revision
- Status of "Use and usage of EAD" survey
  - Received further feedback, though it seems that the majority of respondents is located in the United States
    - Distribute reminders?
    - E.g. also in user groups (https://groups.google.com/g/ica-atom-users)
  - Five more respondents have agreed to be contacted for more details
    - Noah to contact these with an initial thank you message
    - All respondents who agreed to be contacted will be contacted once the survey has closed, i.e. likely the week after Easter
  - Pick up on replies during the EAD3 use cases webinar, especially on cases when both versions are used in parallel
- New document with the timeline for the EAD revision was shared with the team via Google Drive
- Phase 1: Review impact of EAC-CPF 2.0 revision
  - Overview document was shared with the team via Google Drive
  - Discussion of selected topics
    - Deprecated elements and attributes
      - Agreed to remove according to what was announced when publishing EAD3
    - General attributes @audience and @id
      - Confirmed to keep these with all elements of EAD
    - Attribute @base
      - Currently with `<ead>`, `<control>`, `<sources>`, `<archDesc>`, `<daoSet>`, `<relations>`, `<c>`, `<c01>` to `<c12>`
      - Agreed to keep as is for phase 1
      - Agreed to review during phase 2 -> ask community for use cases
    - Attribute @value
      - Currently used with `<agenttype>`, `<eventtype>`, `<maintenancestatus>`, and `<publicationstatus>`, all of which will be turned into attributes themselves
      - Agreed to remove @value from EAD for phase 1
      - Note to keep @value in mind for phase 2 as an option with (new) non-text elements
    - Attribute @unit
      - Only used with `<dimensions>`, data type token; introduced in EAC-CPF 2.0 with `<citedRange>`, data type token
      - Confirmed to keep as is in `<dimensions>` and to also use with `<citedRange>`
    - Attribute @target
      - Only used with `<ptr>` and `<ref>` and thereby indirectly with all elements that use the basic mixed content model
      - EAC-CPF 2.0 introduces @target as a general attribute with all elements (apart from the root element)
      - Change from `<citation>` (for EAD only applicable in <...Declaration> elements in the `<control>` section) to `<ref>`, renamed `<reference>`
      - Change data type to IDREFS
      - Agreed to enable @target with all elements except for `<ead>`, to change its data type to IDREFS, and to rename `<ref>` to `<reference>`
    - Element `<objectXMLWrap>`
      - EAC-CPF has picked up on the implementation of EAD3
      - No change for EAD, confirmed as is
    - Introduction of attributes from any namespace
      - Agreed to follow up in EAD
  - Confirm topics and speakers for April, May, and June meetings: 
    - April meeting (16 April):
      - `<control>` and its attributes and sub-elements (Silke)
        - Potentially also consider whether `<fileDesc>` could be moved out of `<control>`
      - `<biogHist>` and its sub-elements `<chronItem>`, `<chronItemSet>`, `<chronList>` (Anna)
      - Language elements and attributes (Anna)
        - Potentially also consider `<langMaterial>` in this context, though this might only be dealt with in phase 2
      - Assertion description (PENDING)
    - May meeting (21 May): 
      - Relations (Alex)
      - Linking attributes (PENDING)
        - General linking attributes
          - Especially: does EAD have any examples that would speak for keeping @actuate, @arcRole, @show? Could we remove them nonetheless, seeing that it would still be possible to use XLink attributes via the anyNamespace function?
          - Especially: should @lastDateTimeVerified also be made available in connection with the vocabulary attributes?
        - Vocabulary attributes
          - Especially: can @identifier and @source be transformed into @valueURI and @vocabularySource? Can @rules be covered via @conventionDeclarationReference
      - Controlled access elements (Mark)
    - June meeting (18 June):
      - @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference (Karin)
        Especially: where does EAD use @localType at the moment? Does this include any shared elements where EAC-CPF 2.0 does not have @localType?
      - Encoding of places (Wim)
      - Encoding of dates (Wim)
      - Formatting and mixed content elements (Noah)
  - Confirm who will be taking care of adding the EAD team’s feedback on GitHub
    - Kerstin

## 5. Any other business
-  
- Dates for meetings in 2021:
  - 16 April
  - 21 May
  - 18 June
  - 16 July
  - No regular meeting in August, but potentially EAD Team meeting alongside the Annual Meeting of TS-EAS
  - 17 September
  - 15 October
  - 19 November
  - 17 December

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Now also includes action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 110: Noah to keep an eye on responses from "Use and usage of EAD" survey and to thank any respondents who agreed to be contacted - IN PROGRESS - 5 new respondents
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 122: Kerstin to review draft EAD3 TL (and consider any further attributes examples)
- Action 123: Alex to prepare everything for release of EAD3 TL on GitHub 
- Action 124: Kerstin to work with Karin and Mark on submission of minor change request re EAD3 TL to Standards Committee for 8 April
- Action 125: Kerstin to prepare draft for minor revision request for EAD 2002 schema change ahead of next meeting of Schema Team on 13 April
- Action 126: Mark to prepare everything for testing the schema changes
- Action 127: EAD Team to confirm who will be available for testing during their next meeting on 16 April
- Action 128: Silke to prepare topic paper on `<control>` and its attributes and sub-elements for 16 April
- Action 129: Alex to prepare topic paper on relations for 21 May
- Action 130: Mark to prepare topic paper on controlled access elements for 21 May
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 18 June
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June
- Action 133: Kerstin to confirm distribution of pending topics with Anna, Caitlin, and Noah - IN PROGRESS
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1
- Action 135: Anna to prepare topic papers on `<biogHist>` and on encoding language information for 16 April
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June
