# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 12 February 2021
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Now also includes action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation
  - While the form for submitting minor revisions is pending, we will be using a Word document which was shared with the team during the meeting
  - Once the form is available, maybe check with Eric if he can give us a walk-through
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
  - Had a call with colleagues from LoC last week; they have written an entire report about their EAD3 implementation and have also agreed to send examples from their implementation
- Actions 62 and 64: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement`, `@scriptOfElement`, and `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - Decided to rather include this in the context of Best Practice Guide in future than in the call for comments
- Action 72: Kerstin to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS
  - See topic 3
- Action 99: Karin and Mark to check about the detailed workflow around ISBN-s with SAA Publications and with TS-DACS regarding their recent experience - DONE
  - TL-s will be published with an electronic ISBN via the [SAA Standards Portal](https://www2.archivists.org/standards) and SAA Publications will prepare the publication by creating a cover etc.
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
  - Will be updated after the Outreach Team's meeting next week
- Action 103: Kerstin to check with TS-EAS members if any of their institutions would be willing to host a face-to-face meeting - IN PROGRESS
  - Email sent
  - Will be rechecked during quarterly meeting on 19 February
- Action 104: Karin to check deadlines - DONE - Deadline of 1 March confirmed
- Action 105: Kerstin to prepare draft submission for discussion at February meeting - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 106: Kerstin and Silke to consider label for "Feedback from EAD Team" during call for comments on EAC-CPF 2.0 - DONE
  - Decided to continue using the label [EAD3 Reconciliation](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/labels/EAD3%20Reconciliation)
- Action 107: Silke to provide updated version of Shared Elements document as a starting point for review by EAD Team
  - To be shared once the call for comments has been sent out, so that this can be used as a basis for starting the review by EAD Team at the next meeting on 19 March 
- Action 108: Karin to prepare Zoom for February meeting - DONE
- Action 109: Kerstin to send invite for February meeting - DONE

## 2. Upcoming EAD revision
- First responses to "Use and usage of EAD" survey received
  - 14 respondents so far: 8 using EAD 2002, 1 using EAD3, 2 using both versions, 3 not using EAD (yet)
  - 3 have provided their name and email address to get in contact about experience and sharing files
  - Noah agreed to will keep an eye on this and to make sure to thank the colleagues for their willingness to share their experiences and files with us and to let them know that we will be in contact with more details about sharing their experience towards the second half of March; if they would like to already send examples files, they are welcome to do so via ts-eas@archivists.org  
- Action point from projected timeline: “Submit funding request for Component Group Special Project Funding by end of M2” (i.e. end of February 2021)
  - Context: support TS-EAS’ (international) members in terms of travel costs to kick-off review meeting in spring 2022
    - Currently there are two offers with regard to hosting a meeting, both in Europe 
      - Spanish Ministry of Culture and Sports in Salamanca, Spain
      - Geheimes Staatsarchiv and Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin in Berlin, Germany
    - See action 103 with regard to pending question to all TS-EAS members
  - Review of draft text resulted in the following main change: 
    - Ask for round sum: $10,000
  - Actions:
    - Everyone to review the document until 19 February and to comment where applicable
    - Mark to check with Mike about any similar funding requests in the context of the EAD revision towards EAD3
    - Kerstin to check with Daniel along similar lines
    - Karin and Kerstin to finalise and submit w/c 22 February
- Action point after the draft for EAC-CPF 2.0 has been released:
  - Follow up on any changes in this draft that will affect EAD
  - Provide feedback during call for comments to make sure, we don’t have to restart discussions (and make changes) on shared elements/attributes later on
  - Shared elements/attributes in this context are defined by having the same tag and element/attribute name in both EAS
  - Review planned in three steps:
    - 19 March: Changes to shared elements 
    - 16 April: Changes to shared attributes
    - 21 May: New features and generally revamped approaches
    - Action: Everyone to consider volunteering for preparing one of these topics for the team discussion and to get back to Kerstin by 26 February latest
  - Agreed on timeline for next steps after the review:
    - Prepare a first draft of how this will look like in the EAD schema with some additional documentation in preparation for an initial call for comments to be launched in September (after the Annual Meeting). 
    - Tasks between June and August
      - Update to deprecated schemas
      - Update to tag library
    - Timelines will be flexible as there also is dependency of the amount of feedback received during the EAC-CPF 2.0 call for comments and possibly resulting changes to the EAC-CPF 2.0 with impact on EAD

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- Outreach Team
  - EAD related webinars
    - Michelle’s EAD3 webinar (see action 101)
    - Webinar/panel session focused on EAD3 case studies - either completed implementation or underway, maybe also including one from the perspective of a software provider (~May 2021)
      - Irene Gates and Betts Coup from the EAS Section Steering Committee are happy to help with developing the webinar, enlisting panelists, supporting logistics, getting the word out
      - Intention to schedule a planning kick-off meeting
      - Could use the Outreach Team’s checklist as a scaffold (see planning resources in Google Drive)
      - Action: Everyone to consider volunteering for one of these options and to get back to Kerstin by 26 February latest

## 4. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- See comment under action 20 above with regard to the form for submitting minor revisions
- Agreed to integrate the formatting updates done for the draft TL of EAC-CPF 2.0 into the minor release to the TL of EAD3
- Mark suggests to ask SAA Publications for an electronic ISBN for this TL update, which would also allow for an update of the PDF version linked in the [SAA Standards Portal](https://www2.archivists.org/standards)

## 5. Any other business
- Aspects to consider in the context of the major revision of EAD:
  - Representation of digitised and born-digital objects
    - Mark mentioned a recent change in ArchivesSpace with regard to instantiations
  - Relationship between EAD and requirements for eArchiving respectively existing standards for digital preservation 
- Dates for meetings in 2021:
  - 16 April
  - 21 May
  - 18 June
  - 16 July
  - No regular meeting in August, but potentially EAD Team meeting alongside the Annual Meeting of TS-EAS
    - Details around Annual Meeting will be decided during the May meeting of TS-EAS
    - Until then EAD Team should have a better overview of whether or not a more dedicated meeting alongside the annual meeting could be useful in preparing the call for comments and the schema and TL updates (see topic 2)
  - 17 September
  - 15 October
  - 19 November
  - 17 December
  - Actions: 
    - Karin to set up Zoom meetings for the dates that don’t have one yet
    - Kerstin to forward the invitations

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Now also includes action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 72: Kerstin to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 103: Kerstin to check with TS-EAS members if any of their institutions would be willing to host a face-to-face meeting - IN PROGRESS
- Action 107: Silke to provide updated version of Shared Elements document as a starting point for review by EAD Team
- Action 110: Noah to keep an eye on responses from "Use and usage of EAD" survey and to thank any respondents who agreed to be contacted - IN PROGRESS
- Action 111: Kerstin to update funding request document as per today's discussion - DONE
- Action 112: Everyone to review the document until 19 February and to comment where applicable
- Action 113: Mark to check with Mike about any similar funding requests in the context of the EAD revision towards EAD3 - DONE
- Action 114: Kerstin to check with Daniel along similar lines - IN PROGRESS
- Action 115: Karin and Kerstin to finalise and submit w/c 22 February
- Action 116: Everyone to consider volunteering for preparing one of the three topics for the team discussions in March, April, and May and to get back to Kerstin by 26 February latest
- Action 117: Everyone to consider volunteering for joining the preparations for this webinar/panel session and to get back to Kerstin by 26 February latest
- Action 118: Kerstin, Alex and Karin to prepare document for submission of minor revision of the EAD3 TL
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved
- Action 120: Karin to set up Zoom meetings for upcoming EAD Team meetings
- Action 121: Kerstin to forward invitations once the Zoom meetings have been set up
