# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 21 May 2021
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski 
- Apologies: Wim van Dongen 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS (waiting for confirmation of community feedback processes)
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - DONE
  - Information provided by Library of Congress has been added to the ExampleFiles folder on GoogleDrive - to be continued during revision process
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 122: Kerstin to review draft EAD3 TL (and consider any further attributes examples) - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 124: Kerstin to work with Karin and Mark on submission of minor change request re EAD3 TL to Standards Committee by 26 April latest - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 128: Silke to prepare topic paper on `<control>` and its attributes and sub-elements for 21 May - DONE - see topic 5
- Action 129: Alex to prepare topic paper on relations for 21 May - DONE - see topic 6
- Action 130: Mark to prepare topic paper on controlled access elements for 21 May - DONE - see topic 7
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 18 June
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1 - IN PROGRESS
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June
- Action 139: Kerstin to start contacting the respondents with Noah in copy - DONE - see topic 3
- Action 140: Kerstin to check with Silke and Wim for European examples and Ailie for Australian examples - DONE - no results
- Action 141: Karin to check in with Japanese FB group - DONE - no results
- Action 142: Team to think about whether they would know of any other routes that could be followed - DONE
- Action 143: Team to confirm as part of phase 2 of the revision that data type “anyURI” is fine for existing values used in @identifier (use cases!) - FUTURE REFERENCE
 
## 2. Minor release: EAD3 Tag Library
- Status re minor release of EAD3 Tag Library
  - Submitted to Standards Committee
  - Discussed at Standards Committee meeting on 13 May
  - Waiting for feedback/approval
    - Final date for votes is 23 May
    - ACTION: Mark to check for the eISBN once the approval has been received
- Status re minor release of EAD 2002 Schema
  - Submission form finalised
  - Waiting for some final testing (Online Archive California)
  - To be submitted to Standards Committee for their June meeting
    - ACTION: Mark to take care of submitting

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAD use cases webinar/panel sessions - running notes can be found on GoogleDrive
  - ACTION: Team to have a look at “Questions to ask the panel” to refine existing or add new ones
- Speakers confirmed
  - 2 June:
    - Ana Maria López Cuadrado, Archivo Histórico Nacional - Spanish  national aggregator PARES
    - Jane Stevenson, Jisc - UK national aggregator Archives Hub
    - Christine di Bella, ArchivesSpace
  - 4 June:
    - Lindsey Loeper, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
    - Ada Negraru, Southern Methodist University, Dallas
    - Greg Wiedeman, University at Albany, State University of New York

## 4. Phase 1 - Linking attributes
- Finalising remaining topic from April meeting
- See [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210416_Topic_LinkingAttributes.pdf)
- The attribute @relator
  - Move the decision to phase 2
  - Get encoding examples 
  - Wrap into the more general discussion of `<relations>`
- Elements that EAD would enable vocabulary attributes
  - Agreed to the general approach, but exclude `<part>` and `<term>` with regard to having the vocabulary attributes
  - Keep conversation open as part of more general discussion of controlled access terms in phase 2
- The attribute `@lastDateTimeVerified`
  - Suggest to EAC team to remove the attribute `@lastDateTimeVerified` completely and to point to option of including attributes from any namespace (or localControl, localType) if users of the EAS would really want to include this information
    - ACTION: Kerstin to add comment to issue [#233](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/233)

## 5. Phase 1 - `<control>`
- See [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210521_Topic_Control.pdf)
  - Agreed to changing from `<maintenanceStatus>` and `<publicationStatus>` to attributes `@maintenanceStatus` and `@publicationStatus` within `<control>`
  - Agreed to keep `<localControl>` for now and get feedback from community how `<localControl>` is used during phase 2
  - Agreed to move `<fileDesc>` out of `<control>` and make it a sibling element
  - Agreed to remove `@instanceURL` from `<recordId>` and use `<representation@href>` with any type of representation of the EAS encoded information
  - Agreed to change `<abbr>` in the `<...Declaration>` elements to `<shortCode>`
  - Agreed to change from `<citation>` in the `<...Declaration>` elements to `<reference>`
  - Agreed to remove `@localType` from the `<...Declaration>` elements
  - Agreed to change from `<eventType>` to `@maintenanceEventType` in `<maintenanceEvent>` and from `<agentType>` in `<maintenanceEvent>` to `@agentType` in `<agent>`
  - Agreed to remove the restrictions (until 2099-12-31) in the definition of `@standardDateTime`

## 6. Phase 1 - `<relations>`
- Moved to July meeting

## 7. Phase 1 - Controlled access elements
- Moved to July meeting

## 8. Any other business
- Dates for meetings in 2021:
  - 18 June
  - 16 July
  - No regular meeting in August
  - 17 September
  - 15 October
  - 19 November
  - 17 December

## 9. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS (waiting for confirmation of community feedback processes)
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - ONCE APPROVAL HAS BEEN RECEIVED
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 18 June
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1 - IN PROGRESS
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June
- Action 143: Team to confirm as part of phase 2 of the revision that data type “anyURI” is fine for existing values used in @identifier (use cases!) - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 144: Alex to confirm change in the EAD3 TL [#53](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/53)
- Action 145: Mark to take care of submitting minor revision request for EAD 2002 schema to Standards Committee for their June meeting
- Action 146: Team to check and provide feedback on questions to panellists at EAD use cases webinars (deadline: 28 May)
- Action 147: Kerstin to add suggestion for `@lastDateTimeVerified` to issue [#233](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/233) - DONE
