# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 22 January 2021
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo, Mark Custer 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - see topic 4
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 4
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meeting in February 2021 - see topic 5
- Action 97: Kerstin to add GDPR note on last question of EAD revision announcment questionnaire - DONE
- Action 98: Kerstin to contact Adrian and Cory for distribution - DONE
- Action 99: Karin and Mark to check about the detailed workflow around ISBN-s with SAA Publications and with TS-DAS regarding their recent experience - IN PROGRESS
- Action 100: Kerstin to get in contact with Adrian and Cory to check in about any updates from EAS Section and possible follow-up from the survey - DONE
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 102: Kerstin to update the existing Doodle poll for February and check with Karin on setting up Zoom meetings for meeting January and from March to June - DONE

## 2. Upcoming EAD revision
- Updated email for announcing the upcoming revision
  - Added a paragraph on upcoming call for comments on EAC-CPF 2.0
  - Phrased the email more generally as an update by TS-EAS
  - Distribution to start on 26 January (via Outreach Team and EAS Section Steering Committee)
- Action point from projected timeline: “Submit funding request for Component Group Special Project Funding by end of M2” (i.e. end of February 2021)
  - E.g. support TS-EAS (international) members in terms of travel costs
  - While SAA Annual Meeting will be fully virtual again this year, we might have an option to be hosted for a meeting in Salamanca by the Subdirection of Archives at the Spanish Ministry of Culture and Sports, which would be in Spring 2022 and thereby in SAA’s financial year 2021/22.
    - Aim at putting a funding proposal in
    - ACTION: Kerstin to check with TS-EAS members if any of their institutions would be willing to host a face-to-face meeting
    - ACTION: Karin to check deadlines
    - ACTION: Kerstin to prepare draft submission for discussion at February meeting
- Action point once the draft for EAC-CPF 2.0 has been released:
  - Follow up on any changes in this draft that will affect EAD
  - Provide feedback during call for comments to make sure, we don’t have to restart discussions (and make changes) on shared elements/attributes later on
    - Plan: release call for comments during February
    - Have the call for comments open for three months (i.e. most likely until 31 May)
  - Prepare a first draft of how this will look like in the EAD schema with some additional documentation in preparation for an initial call for comments to be launched in September (after the Annual Meeting). 
  - ACTION: Kerstin and Silke to consider label for "Feedback from EAD Team" 
  - ACTION: Silke to provide updated version of Shared Elements document as a starting point

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAS Section
  - Update re EAS Section’s own usage of the survey results: utilising the information in the survey to inform improvements to the EAS Section microsite and GitHub resources, and more generally, for strategising on webinar/tutorial offerings that the Steering Committee will lead on preparing; no discussion of any specific follow-up survey plans
- Outreach Team
  - EAD related webinars
    - Michelle’s EAD3 webinar (Noah)
      - No updates
    - Webinar/panel session focused on EAD3 case studies - either completed implementation or underway, maybe also including one from the perspective of a software provider (~May 2021)
      - Two or three case studies (15 minutes each, plus 5 minutes questions specific to the case), followed by a panel discussion with Q&A that could also open the floor for someone who has decided to stick with EAD 2002 in order to speak about possible reasons for that and about what we could do differently in a new version to get more of the community on board
      - Most likely done in collaboration with the EAS Section and Outreach Team
    - Pick up the “brown bag lunches” in a digital format to have room for some more informal conversations with the community
      - First iteration during Annual Meeting 2021
      - But also looking at providing this as an option during the revision process to "test" some of our ideas (like “TS-EAS Office hours”)
      - ACTION: Discuss the following aspect with Outreach Team 
        - Make sure that groups are not too big, e.g. Zoom breakout rooms (SAA Zoom?)
        - Enable people to “spread out”
        - Consider involving activities such as sticky notes
        - Allow for different time zones
        - Looking into options of recording / editing, making webinars available (e.g. via SAA YouTube)
     - Webinar to introduce the EAD revision a little more after the initial call for comments has been released (~October/November 2021) 

## 4. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- https://www2.archivists.org/sites/all/files/0121-II-C-StdsProcedures.pdf 
  - What do the “Proposed Revisions of Procedures for Review and Approval of an SAA-Developed Standard” mean for the EAD3 TL release?
    - Wait for official form to be published by Standards Committee
      - Minor revision can be pre-approved by Standards, but need final confirmation from Council (in batches)
      - ACTION: Karin (and Mark) to maybe check with Eric if he can give us a walk-through
  - Mark has reached out to SAA Publications regarding minor releases (as well as major ones, since the EAC tag library is not on the SAA website) and what we need to do with SAA Publications
    - Waiting for further feedback
    - Hoping to also get procedures in place for how to handle some legacy updates (e.g. SAA Publicatoins site provides access to the original EAD3 tag library in PDF, but has no mention of the newest minor revision)   

## 5. Any other business
- Next EAD team meeting:
  - Confirmed 12 February for the next meeting
  - ACTION: Karin to prepare Zoom
  - ACTION: Kerstin to send invite
- Dates for meetings in the months after that:
  - 19 March
  - 16 April
  - 21 May
  - 18 June

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Once the form is available, maybe check with Eric if he can give us a walk-through
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS
  For "brown bag lunches" (but also other formats) discuss use of SAA Zoom, breakout rooms, interactive parts, time zones, recording and editing, making information available via SAA YouTube
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - WAITING for official form to be released
- Action 99: Karin and Mark to check about the detailed workflow around ISBN-s with SAA Publications and with TS-DACS regarding their recent experience - IN PROGRESS
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 103: Kerstin to check with TS-EAS members if any of their institutions would be willing to host a face-to-face meeting - IN PROGRESS
- Action 104: Karin to check deadlines - DONE - Deadline of 1 March confirmed
- Action 105: Kerstin to prepare draft submission for discussion at February meeting - IN PROGRESS
- Action 106: Kerstin and Silke to consider label for "Feedback from EAD Team" during call for comments on EAC-CPF 2.0
- Action 107: Silke to provide updated version of Shared Elements document as a starting point for review by EAD Team
- Action 108: Karin to prepare Zoom for February meeting - DONE
- Action 109: Kerstin to send invite for February meeting - DONE
