# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 16 April 2021
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Noah Huffman 
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo, Mark Custer, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
  - Now also includes action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - DONE
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 110: Noah to keep an eye on responses from "Use and usage of EAD" survey and to thank any respondents who agreed to be contacted - DONE - see topic 3
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 122: Kerstin to review draft EAD3 TL (and consider any further attributes examples) - IN PROGRESS - see topic 2
- Action 123: Alex to prepare everything for release of EAD3 TL on GitHub - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 124: Kerstin to work with Karin and Mark on submission of minor change request re EAD3 TL to Standards Committee by 26 April latest - IN PROGRESS (depending on action 122) - see topic 2
- Action 125: Kerstin to prepare draft for minor revision request for EAD 2002 schema change ahead of next meeting of Schema Team on 13 April - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 126: Mark to prepare everything for testing the schema changes - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 127: EAD Team to confirm who will be available for testing during their next meeting on 16 April - see topic 2
- Action 128: Silke to prepare topic paper on `<control>` and its attributes and sub-elements for 16 April - MOVED to meeting on 21 May
- Action 129: Alex to prepare topic paper on relations for 21 May
- Action 130: Mark to prepare topic paper on controlled access elements for 21 May
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 18 June
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June
- Action 133: Kerstin to confirm distribution of pending topics with Anna, Caitlin, and Noah - DONE
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1 - PENDING
- Action 135: Anna to prepare topic papers on `<biogHist>` and on encoding language information for 16 April - DONE - see topics 6 and 7
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June
- Action 137: Kerstin to prepare topic paper on assertion description for 16 April - DONE - see topic 5
- Action 138: Kerstin to prepare topic paper on linking attributes for 16 April (moved from meeting on 21 May instead of the paper on `<control>`) - DONE - see topic 8

## 2. Minor release: EAD3 Tag Library
- Status re minor release of EAD3 Tag Library
  - Review of the draft TL ongoing
  - Looking for encoding examples for the following attributes:
    - For `<table>`: char, charoff, morerows, nameend, namestart, pgwide
    - For links: base, entityref, xpointer
    - For `<physdescstructured><quantity>`: approximate
    - For alternative/other types and labels: althead, otherdaotype, otherdsctype, otherlevel
    - transliteration
    - **Deadline: 22 April**
- Status re minor release of EAD 2002 Schema
  - Link to overview of changes in final release branch: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/commits/release/final
  - Testers wanted
    - **Deadline: 7 May 2021**
    - XSD:  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/release/final/ead.xsd 
    - RNG: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/release/final/ead.rng 

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- Dates for EAD3 webinar confirmed for 
  - 2 June at 6AM GMT (London 7am, Brussels 8am, New Delhi 11:30am, Beijing 2pm, Melbourne 4pm)
  - https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJcqceCgqDwuH9yXiC5IKVmO4FyBTyZaDcat
  - 2nd speaker/host wanted (from Europe, Asia, Australia)
    - Karin will be available for both sessions
  - 4 June at 3PM GMT (Los Angeles 8am, New York 11am, Buenos Aires 12pm, London 4pm, Brussels 5pm)
  - https://zoom.us/meeting/register/tJ0pdemtpz4oE9ddm3wOJwdbCrzDI-h4n5QU 
  - Speakers/hosts (supported by Outreach Team): Kerstin, Noah
- Contact to EAD use and usage respondents who agreed to share their experiences to see if they would be interested in being a panelist
  - As all of these are US-based: contacts wanted to EAD3 users or software providers that have integrated EAD3 in their systems (import/export etc.) from Europe, Asia, Oceania to cover the first session

## 4. Phase 1 - `<control>`
- Moved to May meeting

## 5. Phase 1 - Assertion description
- Discussed the [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210416_Topic_AssertionDescription.pdf)
- Agreed to add `<descriptiveNote>` to `<sources>`
- Agreed to the changes with regard to the attributes `@target`, `@languageOfElement`, `@scriptOfElement` and attributes from other namespaces in `<sources>` and `<source>`  
- Agreed to hold off on the attributes `@encodinganalog` and `@altrender` in `<sources>` and `<source>` and to review their use during phase 2
- Agreed to remove `<sourceentry>` from `<source>` and use `<reference>` instead
- Agreed to add the new optional element `<citedRange>` to `<source>`
- Agreed to adapt the sequence of sub-elements in `<source>` following the corresponding design principle
- Agreed to remove `@transliteration` and to use `<conventionDeclaration>` to specify any transliteration rules along with `@conventionDeclarationReference` to point to such rules from elements of the `<archDesc>` section
- Agreed to add the optional attributes `@conventionDeclarationReference`, `@maintenanceEventReference`, and `@sourceReference` to all non-empty elements of EAD that are used outside of the `<control>` section including `<archDesc>`, but excluding `<emph>` and `<foreign>`

## 6. Phase 1 - `<biogHist>`
- Oral presentation
  - General note that none of the existing differences for <biogHist> are specific to this element, but rather refer to the conceptual difference between EAC-CPF and EAD; as such they will not yet be addressed in phase 1 to full extent:
    - Use of the attributes @altrender and @encodinganalog
    - Use of definition lists with `<defitem>`, `<label>`, and `<item>`
    - Use of `<table>`-s
    - Use of `<blockquote`>-s
    - Mixed content in general
    - Nesting of `<biogHist>` and other informal description elements
  - Other aspects will be discussed in more detail in the June meeting:
    - Use of `<emph render=””>` (in EAD) vs `<span style=””>` (in EAC-CPF) - Topic on formatting and mixed content elements
    - Elements `<head>` and `<list>` - Topic on formatting and mixed content elements
    - Change from `<datesingle>` to `<date>` - Topic on encoding dates
    - Change from `<geogname>` to `<placeName>` - Topic on encoding places

## 7. Phase 1 - Language elements and attributes
- Oral presentation
  - Agree to the renaming of the various language attributes:
    - @lang to @languageOfElement and @script to @scriptOfElement
    - @langcode to @languageCode
    - @scriptcode to @scriptCode (only camelCase change)
    - Reconfirmed the change from `<script>` to `<writingSystem>`, following our previous decision on [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520)
    - Agreed to the change for `<languageDeclaration>`
      - As this is part of `<control>`, it is deemed to be sufficient to only work with the language and script codes directly in `<languageDeclaration>`
      - If required in certain applications, a human-readable form of the language and/or script could be generated based on this
      - Remove sub-elements `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` from `<languageDeclaration>`
      - Add @languageCode and @scriptCode directly to `<languageDeclaration>`
  - With regard to `<langMaterial>` (detailed discussion to be part of phase 2), a note has been taken to also consider the representation of archival materials with spoken rather than written languages

## 8. Phase 1 - Linking attributes
- Moved from May meeting
- Started discussing topic paper (will be added to GitHub once discussion is finalised)
  - Agreed to remove @actuate, @arcrole, and @show from the group of general linking attributes and to keep only @href, @linkRole, and @linkTitle
    - Agreement supported by the fact that - with the introduction of attributes of any other namespace - it would still be possible to continue using @xlink:actuate, @xlink:arcrole, and @xlink:show if wanted
  - Agreed to rename @source to @vocabularySource for precision - and to distinguish from <source> and @sourceReference - and to add the sibling attribute @vocabularySourceURI
  - Agreed to remove @identifier and to use @valueURI instead for all elements that currently use @identifier in EAD3
    - Question: why couldn’t @identifier be kept for both EAS, seeing that it already exists in EAD3?
    - Answer: the intent is to avoid mixing up @identifier and @id, which are currently very similarly named, but have quite a different scope
    - Question: what about values in the current attribute @identifier that are not a classic URI, e.g. are relative URL-s or file paths or include blanks and other non-URI characters?
    - Answer: while the use of whitespaces or other non-URI characters could probably be discouraged, it is - in theory - possible to use these (all but “ % &) with @valueURI even with the attribute being of data type “anyURI”
  - In the specific use case of @identifier with `<unitid>`, agreed that this might rather be a use case for @target, which would now be available with `<unitid>` to point to “the descriptive component in which the element appears”
  - Agreed to remove @rules and to use @conventionDeclarationReference instead to point to a `<conventionDeclaration>` element, which would then provide information about the “national, international or other rule that governs the construction of an EAC-CPF name” or another element’s content.
  - Discussion about the remaining sections of the topic paper (the attribute @relator; elements that would enable vocabulary attributes; the attribute @lastDateTimeVerified) moved to (one of) the next meeting(s) 

## 9. Any other business
- Dates for meetings in 2021:
  - 21 May
  - 18 June
  - 16 July
  - No regular meeting in August, but potentially EAD Team meeting alongside the Annual Meeting of TS-EAS
  - 17 September
  - 15 October
  - 19 November
  - 17 December

## 10. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS (waiting for confirmation of community feedback processes)
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - ONGOING
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 122: Kerstin to review draft EAD3 TL (and consider any further attributes examples) - IN PROGRESS
- Action 124: Kerstin to work with Karin and Mark on submission of minor change request re EAD3 TL to Standards Committee by 26 April latest - IN PROGRESS (depending on action 122)
- Action 128: Silke to prepare topic paper on `<control>` and its attributes and sub-elements for 16 April - MOVED to meeting on 21 May
- Action 129: Alex to prepare topic paper on relations for 21 May
- Action 130: Mark to prepare topic paper on controlled access elements for 21 May
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 18 June
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1 - PENDING
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June
- Action 139: Kerstin to start contacting the respondents with Noah in copy - IN PROGRESS
- Action 140: Kerstin to check with Silke and Wim for European examples and Ailie for Australian examples - DONE
- Action 141: Karin to check in with Japanese FB group
- Action 142: Team to think about whether they would know of any other routes that could be followed
- Action 143: Team to confirm as part of phase 2 of the revision that data type “anyURI” is fine for existing values used in @identifier (use cases!) - FUTURE REFERENCE
