# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 18 June 2021
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman
- Apologies: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Silke Jagodzinski, Wim van Dongen 

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS (waiting for confirmation of community feedback processes)
- Action 72: Kerstin and Noah to continue discussing future webinar options with Outreach Team - DONE - see topic 3
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel - IN PROGRESS
- Action 119: Mark to ask for electronic ISBN once the minor revision has been approved - DONE
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 16 July
- Action 132: Wim to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June - changed to: Kerstin to prepare topic papers on place encoding and date encoding for 18 June - DONE - see topic 4 and topic 6
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1 - IN PROGRESS
- Action 136: Noah to prepare topic paper on formatting and mixed content elements for 18 June - DONE - see topic 5
- Action 143: Team to confirm as part of phase 2 of the revision that data type “anyURI” is fine for existing values used in @identifier (use cases!) - FUTURE REFERENCE
- Action 144: Alex to confirm change in the EAD3 TL [#53](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/53) - DONE
- Action 145: Mark to take care of submitting minor revision request for EAD 2002 schema to Standards Committee for their June meeting - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 146: Team to check and provide feedback on questions to panellists at EAD use cases webinars (deadline: 28 May) - DONE - see topic 3
- Action 147: Kerstin to add suggestion for `@lastDateTimeVerified` to issue [#233](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/233) - DONE

## 2. Updates on minor releases: EAD3 Tag Library and EAD 2002 schema
- Status re minor release of EAD3 Tag Library
  - Approved by Standards Committee
  - eISBN has been received
  - Latest version of the PDF pending review before publication
- Status re minor release of EAD 2002 Schema
  - Approved by Standards Committee (on 17 June)
- ACTION: Kerstin to check with Glenn about publishing schedule (have Mark and Karin in copy)

## 3. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAD use cases webinar/panel sessions - slides on GitHub:
  - https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/outreach-communications-subteam/webinars 
  - Publication of recording pending

## 4. Phase 1 - Date encoding
- See [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210618_Topic_DateEncoding.pdf)
  - Following EAD team’s general decision to move away from the four-elements model by removing the current `<date>` element as a separate element in mixed content contexts and by renaming the current `<datesingle>` to a "new" `<date>` following the EAC-CPF approach (see [#526](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/526)), the EAD team: 
    - Agreed for `<chronItem>`, `<dateSet>`, `<localControl>`, `<relation>`, and `<unitDateStructured>` to use `<date>`, `<dateRange>`, and `<dateSet>` (where applicable) in future
    - Agreed for `<abstract>`, `<p>`, `<event>`, and `<item>` as well as for `<entry>` and `<reference>` to use a minimised mixed content model (with only `<span>` and `<reference>`), i.e. removing `<date>` (and others) from these elements (see also topic 5 of today’s meeting)
    - Agreed for `<publicationstmt>` to use the set of three date elements in future by adding `<dateRange>` and `<dateSet>` next to `<date>` and for `<publicationstmt>` to thereby follow the data model of `<chronItem>` etc.
    - Agreed for `<archref>`, `<bibref>`, `<unittitle>`, `<physfacet>`, and `<part>` to use the “new” `<date>`, but to keep things as they are for now and to look at this in more detail as part of phase 2
  - Furthermore, the EAD team agreed that the "new" `<date>` will be using the same attributes as suggested in the draft for EAC-CPF 2.0; same as `<fromDate>` and `<toDate>`
    - Agreed for `<fromDate>` and `<toDate>` to adopt  the new attribute `@status` with the same attribute values as in the draft for EAC-CPF 2.0. Seeing that `<date>` would also be a sub-element of `<unitDateStructured>` in EAD, however, the EAD team will suggest to the EAC team that @status with the value "unknown" is made available with `<date>` as well.
    - ACTION: Kerstin to add according comments in GitHub issues - DONE (see [#179](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/179) and [#254](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/254)) 
    - Agreed to enable the attributes `@calendar`, `@era`, and `@certainty` for all three single date elements, i.e. `<date>`, `<fromDate>`, and `<toDate>`
    - Agreed to remove `@normal` and to only use `@standardDate` with the single date elements (as a result of the change regarding `<date>` and `<datesingle>`; this change should be facilitated by the circumstance, that `@standardDate` will be of the data type TOKEN in both EAS in future
    - Also agreed to following EAC-CPF 2.0 in adopting the latest version of the ISO standard on dates, ISO8601:2019, which includes uncertain and approximate date qualifiers in the Extended Date/Time Format (EDTF)
    - Agreed to have the wrapper elements on dates, `<dateRange>` and `<dateSet>`, follow the suggestions in the draft of EAC-CPF 2.0
    - Agreed that both elements will use the same attributes as in EAC-CPF 2.0
    - Agreed that `<dateRange>` will require that at least one of the sub-elements `<fromDate>` and `<toDate>` is present, though both could be left empty. If both sub-elements are present, EAC-CPF 2.0 furthermore suggests that `<fromDate>` will have to be named first (see [#180](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/180))

## 5. Phase 1 - Formatting elements and mixed content
- See [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210618_Topic_FormattingAndMixedContentElements.pdf)
  - Agreed to remove `@althead` and `@altrender` and to point to either `@style` for formatting according to CSS values and (2) to the option to include attributes from other namespaces
  - Agreed to remove `@mark` and `@numeration` and map both to `@style` per EAC recommendation; agreed to recommend use of W3C CSS attribute values in this context (see also [#171](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/171))
  - Agreed to remove “deflist” as a value of `@listType` and to create a new element `<defList>` instead
    - Agreed to  - in this context - remove `<defitem>` from `<list>` and to use `<defItem>` only in the new `<defList>` element
    - Agreed to rename `<label>`, following the design principle to not have an attribute and element of the same name; suggestion to reuse `<term>` which already has been adopted from EAC; final decision on the name pending
  - Agreed to follow the EAC model for `<abstract>`, `<event>`, `<item>`, and `<p>`, i.e. to only use `<reference>` and `<span>` as sub-elements
  - Agreed to apply the same principle to `<entry>` and `<reference>`
  - Agreed to follow the EAC model for formatting by using `<span>` with `@style` instead of `<emph>` with `@render`
  - Agreed to also introduce `@style` with other elements that allow for `@render` at the moment, i.e. `<foreign>`, `<title>`, and `<titleproper>` depending on their context; when used as mixed content elements, these three elements will be replaced by `<span>` with `@localType` (or any other namespace attribute)

## 6. Phase 1 - Place encoding
- See [topic paper](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/working-documents/20210618_Topic_PlaceEncoding.pdf)
  - Agreed to transform topic paper into voting document and to discuss voting results at the next meeting

## 7. Any other business
- Dates for meetings in 2021:
  - 16 July
    - Karin - `@localType` and `@localTypeDeclarationReference`
    - Alex - relations
    - Mark - controlaccess
  - No regular meeting in August
  - 17 September
  - 15 October
  - 19 November
  - 17 December

## 8. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee
- Action 101: Noah to check and feed back on the status of Michelle’s work in preparation for the EAD3 webinar/panel
- Action 131: Karin to prepare topic paper on @localType and @localTypeDeclarationReference for 16 July
- Action 134: Kerstin to start updating and adding GitHub issues with regard to phase 1
- Action 143: Team to confirm as part of phase 2 of the revision that data type “anyURI” is fine for existing values used in @identifier (use cases!)
- Action 148: Kerstin to check with Glenn about publishing schedule (have Mark and Karin in copy) 
- Action 149: Kerstin to add according comments for `@status`with `<date>`in GitHub issues - DONE (see [#179](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/179) and [#254](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/254))  
- Action 150: Kerstin to transform topic paper on place encoding to voting document and distrubute
- Action 151: All to vote on options and changes for place encoding until the next meeting
