# Meeting, 12 May 2020
Time: 9 a.m. EST / 3 p.m. CEST

## Attendees
-

## Agenda / Minutes
- Quick update on GitHub workflow discussion (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g_D7-Av7XqBPek_H1SYp_8X3siKAk8ahKttRo_G9mzY/edit?usp=sharing)
- Review "design principles" draft.  See: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zAgxp5PjX9XvcnXyORw5ZFp2JtUlm-VXYnS4L6eCIpk/edit?usp=sharing
  - Help with documentation-related principles! :)
- @localtype and @type discussion (on agenda for May 15, as well)
- What do we want to accomplish by August?


## Action items
- (Likely still need to) Create new issues in GitHub for the two schematron / date-related developments suggested.
- ...
