# Meeting, 23 June 2020
Time: 9 a.m. EST / 3 p.m. CEST

## Attendees
- Kerstin, Karin, Mark, Alex, Jess, Eric

## Agenda / Minutes
- Review survey results
  - Possible next steps based on results:
    - go with the result that received the top number of first-place rankings: kebab-case
    - go with the result that received the best average of all rankings: camelCase
    - stick with the previous recommendation (but also remove the Readability Matters principle): lowercase
 - Given the low number of votes, let's create a new survey with just those 3 options.  
 - Voting open until SAA Chicago, at which point we'll discuss the results.
- Design Principles
  - Discussed feedback
  - Keep editing until Friday
  - Send updated draft, with documentation principles, by July 13th, to TS-EAS


## Action items
- Create and send out new survey for camelCase, kebab-case, or lowercase.  (Mark)
- Re-schedule bi-weekly meetings for Schema subteam, same day and time. Will hold off on re-convening until after SAA (Mark)
- Edit Design Principles (All)
- Circulate draft of Design Principles to TS-EAS (Mark)
