# Meeting, 31 March 2020
Time: 9 a.m. EST / 3 p.m. CEST

## Attendees
- Mark, Karin, Alex, Jess, Eric

## Agenda / Minutes
- Github workflow discussion.  See:
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1urLNfwFD7VGggcnrov-R4T0evY6PZ-aejHaU214lTOk/edit?usp=sharing
  - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1g_D7-Av7XqBPek_H1SYp_8X3siKAk8ahKttRo_G9mzY/edit?usp=sharing
- Discuss "design principles" draft.  See: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zAgxp5PjX9XvcnXyORw5ZFp2JtUlm-VXYnS4L6eCIpk/edit?usp=sharing
  - If time before the meeting, review:
    - http://www.loc.gov/standards/mods/design-principles-mods-mads.html
    - https://pages.nist.gov/OSCAL/documentation/schema/datatypes/#markup-data-types


## Action items
- Submit subteam update, from February (Mark)
- Get DILCIS GitHub workflow image (Karin) and update for TS-EAS workflow (Mark)
- Follow up with EAC group and Silke about whether Trello is needed or if working in GitHub will be sufficient for their workflow-tracking / approval needs (next EAC meeting).
- Archive the EAC-CPF tag library GH repository, https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-taglibrary (Karin)
- Add Berlin meeting topics -- forward to Schema subteam from EAC team -- to April meeting(s) (Mark)
