## SAA 2020 notes


### Meeting times:

Monday 3rd: 6.00 am PDT / 7.00 am MDT / 8.00 am CDT / 9.00 am EDT / 2.00pm BST / 3.00 pm CEST / 11.00pm AEST

Tuesday 4th:  2.00 pm PDT / 3.00 pm MDT / 4.00 pm CDT / 5.00 pm EDT / 10.00pm BST / 11.00 pm CEST/ 7.00am Wednesday AEST

Wednesday 5th:  6.00 am PDT / 7.00 am MDT / 8.00 am CDT / 9.00 am EDT / 2.00pm BST / 3.00 pm CEST / 11.00pm AEST

Thursday 6th:  9.00 pm Wednesday PDT / 10.00 pm Wednesday MDT / 11.00 pm CDT / 12.00 am Wednesday/Thursday EDT / 5.00am BST / 6.00 am CEST/ 2.00pm AEST

Friday 7th:  6.00 am PDT / 7.00 am MDT / 8.00 am CDT / 9.00 am EDT / 2.00pm BST / 3.00 pm CEST / 11.00pm AEST


### Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Mon
   </td>
   <td>Tue
   </td>
   <td>Wed
   </td>
   <td>Thu
   </td>
   <td>Fri
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anila Anjeli
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>William Stockting
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aaron Rubinstein
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Vasiliki (Lina) Bountouri
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Noah Huffman
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wim van Dongen
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Joost van Koutrik
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Adrian Turner (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Caitlin Rizzo
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard MÃ¼ller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jessica Purkis (Early-Career member 19-20)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Jeremy Floyd
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Clinton Johnson
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sara Schliep (Early career member 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
   <td>-
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



### Monday 3rd

Notetaker: Jess

See also the presentation: 2020-08-03_Monday_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf


#### Welcome to this week! from Karin

Karin started the meeting week off with the housekeeping which included that there will be no recordings made and that we make notes collaboratively following the lead of Jess. We have set up a Slack channel that can be used by the teams if the teams want to. Slack is an easy way to communicate with short messages. 


#### Schema design principles from Mark

The schema team has inherited two different schemas with different outcomes and processes to get the outcomes. The team has been working on unifying the schemas and their processes to be able to automate the process of schema publication. The schemas and procedures are supported with the draft design principles (see the document TS-EAS Schema Design Principles (July version).pdf) that for finalisation needs the aid from the whole TS with examples. The principles is published in the Handbook to be easy to access [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/Design-Principles](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/Design-Principles) .

A question arises whether the principles should incorporate rules on the version naming conventions of the schemas. (EAD3) is the example being used. This discussion will be moved forward.

The detail of the principles were discussed and the conclusion was that the principles shouldnt be too detailed; instead the forthcoming best practice guidelines should explain the detailed level and point back to the design principles.

The changes will be implemented when it's feasible to do so the work with the current two standards and their revisions is interrupted as little as possible. 


#### Schema Publication / Modelling changes from Mark

Moving forward with the schema development the two schemas will become part of a modular wise method where they are developed in union and then transformed to their respective output to minimize having to define things in more than one module. This means that there will be only one repository for all the schemas. The change will firstly be implemented in the EAC-CPF revision and during the EAD revision the change will be implemented for EAD. 

The namespaces of the schemas were discussed and there will be a strategy developed where the schemas will use one EAS namespace based upon a URI and use of ns to indicate it being a namespace and https for security.  


#### Casing of Tag Libraries. Decision announced! from Mark

During the work with the design principles the question of casing for element and attribute names became apparent to need a decision. TS EAS have had voting on possible ways of doing it and the result is the decision.

**Decision**: All TS EAS schemas will use Camel Case for naming elements and attributes.


#### Modelling events from Gerhard

During the EAC-CPF revision meeting in Berlin earlier in the year the question regarding events needed to be placed in the descriptions were raised. For example in EAC-CPF it's not possible to say that the date given is for the wedding day. In EAD on the other hand it's possible to create a list in &lt;chronitemset> ([Chronology Item Set](https://www.loc.gov/ead/EAD3taglib/EAD3.html#elem-chronitemset)) where you can give this kind of event based lists.

To this TS EAS meeting the Berlin meeting sent this list with things to consider:



*   Examining the nature of events in context of EAC-CPF/EAD
*   Decision making on encoding approaches of events in EAS
*   Want to be able to encode events associated with a person or a record with upcoming things like RiC

The discussion that followed ended up with a number of decisions.

**Decision**: &lt;chronitemset> is a short solution for connecting a date with an event.

**Decision**: EAC-CPF gives guidance on how to encode events such as the wedding date.

**Decision**: Events in the form of for example a conference will be brought into the functions/activities work in EAC-F


#### Guideline for community feedback session led by Karin

The guideline being created by the council is not completed. They will be introduced latest at the Standards Committee meeting. We will look at them then.


### Tuesday 4th of August

Notetaker: Mark, Karin, Jess

See also the presentation: 2020-08-04_Tuesday_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf


#### Updates from EAC revision meetings (the week before) from Silke, Kerstin and Ailie (Includes anything that might require decisions from all of TS-EAS)

The EAC-CF team with Alex and Eric joining met the previous week for 5 meetings to work with the revision. The meetings made a number of decisions which can be read more about in the notes from the EAC-CPF team which will be available in this GitHub folder [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/eaccpf-subteam/meeting-minutes/2020](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/eaccpf-subteam/meeting-minutes/2020) 

There are a number of questions where the whole TS EAS need to give their input for a decision to be made.


##### &lt;span> in EAC-CPF

The element is used to give formatting values to the content within and is similar to the &lt;emph> element in EAD. The preference is to align EAD and EAC-CPF here but examples are needed. Adrian provided EAD &lt;emph> examples from OAC; [https://oac.cdlib.org/search?query=emph&x=0&y=0](https://oac.cdlib.org/search?query=emph&x=0&y=0)

**Decision**: Request examples of both &lt;span> and &lt;emph> to aid with the final decision.


##### Referencing

Itâs possible to do referencing in a number of ways.


###### Internal referencing

EAC-CPF has @xml:id attributes in all elements but it canât be used in any way within the document since there are no attributes that can reference the idâs. In EAD there is the same @id but it's followed by @target which makes referencing possible. The suggestion in EAC-CPF is to add the possibility to reference using the id provided. There will be two cases of internal referencing, first one between elements themself and second one being to information given in the control section like in a convention declaration. One example to look at is provided by Wim, [https://github.com/ArchivesPortalEuropeFoundation/apeEAD/issues/4](https://github.com/ArchivesPortalEuropeFoundation/apeEAD/issues/4) .

**Decision**: Addition of referencing attributes with names showing which control declaration they reference for example @localTypeDeclarationReference.

**Decision**: Addition of element &lt;ref> in EAC-CPF for the internal referencing. Where is still open but most likely next to span.

**Decision**: &lt;ref> becomes &lt;reference> following the design principles.


###### External referencing

It is possible to do external referencing for example in EAC-CPF with @vocabularySource which is made in EAD with @source and @identifier. To simplify the suggestion is to align the both standards and use the attributes originating in the redesign of relations in EAC-CPF; using 3 attributes of @vocabularySource (for literal value), @vocabularySourceURI, and @valueURI. They should also be possible to use in any element in both EAS.

Another external referencing is the reference to other external resources which in EAC-CPF is made with &lt;citation> and in EAD in more than one way; &lt;citation> (in control), &lt;ref> (&lt;ptr>) and @href in &lt;archref> and &lt;bibref>. There is a need to find a joint way.

A discussion followed including how or if it's a distinction in internal or external referencing. 

**Decision: **Use the &lt;reference> also for this linking which means &lt;citation> becomes &lt;reference>. Suggested placement is in all elements that can contain text.


##### Abbreviation

In EAC-CPF in control the element &lt;abbreviation> is used to create or give an abbreviation for an institution and so on. EAD has &lt;abbr> used as giving abbreviations all over the place. The discussion is focused on the element that is placed in EAC-CPF in control which will be added in EAD during the reconciliation work.

**Decision**: shortCode is the name that will be implemented in control instead of abbreviation.


##### Best Practice Guide

At the meeting in Austin there was the decision to create a best practice guide to aid the users of EAC-CPF. We need to gather more complete examples, focused on different topics rather than elements/attributes. Wim pointed us to the Nationaal Archief/Netherlands and the "actorenregister" ("actoren" = archives records creators) [https://actorenregister.nationaalarchief.nl](https://actorenregister.nationaalarchief.nl) . There can be EAC-CPF recordsdownloaded via OAI-PMH to use as examples.

The first version will start with complex sections, such as âcontrolâ; names, dates, etc. and also focus on brand new additions to EAC-CPF:  assertions, multiple languages, uncertain dates, etc.

**Decision**: request help with examples from the user community.


#### Date model changes from Kerstin

Work with alignment of attributes for the dates has been carried out and will be implemented during the revisions. Kerstin gave a description of the changes being made in EAC-CPF and what will be further investigated in the revision of EAD.

For EAC-CPF the @status will be added to &lt;todate> and &lt;fromdate> so its possible to tell it its open or uncertain alsong side a recommendation to use EDTF ([https://id.loc.gov/datatypes/edtf.html](https://id.loc.gov/datatypes/edtf.html))  in the attribute @certianity.

For EAD the work will continue in the revision process due to the fact that EAD has differentiated between a single date and a date encoded in the text. There is a need to find out what the textual date is used for. One source in the investigation is Library of Congress, [https://findingaids.loc.gov/exist_collections/ead3master/mss/2014/ms014004.xml](https://findingaids.loc.gov/exist_collections/ead3master/mss/2014/ms014004.xml) . (regarding dates in unit title).


### Wednesday 5th of August

Notetaker: Alex, Ailie, and Jess

See also the presentation: 2020-08-05_Wednesday_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf

This meeting was focusing on the members rotating off and welcoming the new members and introducing them to what TS EAS is doing.


#### Changes in memberships



*   Members rotating off: Jeremy, Clinton, Jess, Lina, Bill
*   Reappointments: Karin, Alex, Ailie, Cory


#### Liaisons 



*   Standards Committee: Erik Sonnenberg
*   Web page liaisons: Gerhard MÃ¼ller (EAC), Glenn Gardner (EAD)
*   Other sections: Michele Combs (EAS), Caitlin Wells (CMS until August)


#### Introduction of new members from Mark

The new members Iris Lee (AMNH in NY, 3 year), Anna McCormick (NYU, 3 year) and Sarah Schliep (Folger in DC, 1 year Early Career) got introduced. There is no new international members at this time but TS is international and there will be made a call for international members during the fall.


#### Introduction to TS-EAS structures

In short the structures are:



*   4 TS meetings annually
*   Multiple subteams, multiple communication avenues
    *   Listserv, Google Drive, GitHub, Slack (new!)
    *   Preferred email + GitHub username required to be given to Mark and Karin
*   More details in the [Handbook ](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/wiki/Meeting-Policies-and-Procedures)on GitHub
    *   Round of team member introductions


#### Team presentations from team leaders

Before the team presentations all the members in the call introduced themselves.


##### EAC-CPF from Silke

The annual report on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/eaccpf-subteam/committee-updates/update_2020_08_03.md). In short the work is the EAC-CPF major revision with the hope of release for public comment in 2020 and to finalize revision of EAC-CPF 2.0 in 2021. 

The team consists of 6 members and guests. There are monthly virtual meetings, first Friday of the month for 90 minutes. Google Drive is used for working documents, meeting notes and papers available on GitHub. There have been a face-to-face meeting in Berlin in March and virtual meeting as part of virtual SAA. 

New members are welcome!

The main task right now is regarding documentation including to gather real-world examples, summaries/descriptions for TL/BPG and to revise/edit text/examples.

There will be intensive work for the rest of 2020 in the team!


##### EAD from Kerstin

The annual report on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/committee-updates/update_2020-08-05.md). In short, in the period 2019-2020 there was delivered the EAD3 1.1.1 release and it's a continued regular review of issues on GitHub and elsewhere. There have been a lot of crossovers with other subteams; EAD3 Reconciliation/Shared Schema (EAC-CPF), EAS implementation (EAS Section) and Communications; potential panel session regarding EAD3 implementers (Outreach).

The team maintains and supports the usage of EAD with a focus on EAD3 but provides some support to EAD2002 due to continued use.

A rolling revision cycle [not major revisions] has been developed and will be used in all eAS standards.



*   31 December: deadline for requests
    *   Including bug fixes
*   30 April: Deadline for evaluation
*   30 June: Community feedback and testing deadline
*   31 August: Release deadline

For 2020-2021 the plan includes regular work (issue review, etc.), continued collaboration with Outreach, finalizing EAD3 Reconciliation work with EAC-CPF revision and the preparations for a major EAD revision.

Kerstin thanked the existing members and new members are welcome! The team have monthly meetings: Mon or Tues second or third week each month where the plan for the rest of 2020 is the dates 9/14, 10/20, 11/9, 12/15.


##### Schema from Mark

Mark who missed to introduce himself started off with that and then gave an overview of the schema team. 

The team receives direction from other teams and groups, and updates the schemas for EAC-CPF and EAD, responds to any schema-related bug reports and creates new schemas as required. Maintaining and revising any documentation created during its work is also part of the team work.

The annual report on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/schemas-subteam/committee-updates/update-2020-07-21.md) . In short during the last year the accomplishments included EAD3 patch: version 1.1.1, creation of the Design principles for Schemas and Documentation.

Looking forward the team will have monthly meetings and work on establishing a new schema publication process being tested with the  EAC-CPF 2.0 beta release in December. A transformation framework for EAC 1.0 -> 2.0 will be created and possible to test in the review. A fully automated new publication process using GitHub actions will be established during Jan-July. 

The team also assists with TL publication and will update and maintain schema publication documentation.


##### Outreach from Cory and Adrian

The team is reorganized since January 2020 and has a new [charge](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/charge.md) which focuses on communication and outreach. The team has liaisons to many sections, but its focus is on community engagement related to EAS development and implementation.

The team is responsible for updating websites, making sure others have access to documentation, and arranging specific outreach activities (using webinars, video tutorials, newsletter postings, etc.).

The annual report on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/reports/report-20200803.md) includes highlights like the first webinar made twice which hit capacity both times! The team has cleaned up TS microsite to make it easier to maintain moving ahead. The EAS Section survey results will aid the outreach team in planning the work. 

The team plan to create an number of brief video tutorials for fall/winter:



*   Submitting bugs/issues to EAS
*   âEAD on a Shoestringâ 
*   Introduction to EAC-CPF (with Kathy Wisser)
*   EAS revision cycles
    *   Major and minor revision cycles
    *   About the fact that thereâs ongoing updates and maintenance happening, etc

The team is also planning a number of webinars:



*   RiC updates 
*   EAC-CPF revision: introduction and community engagement/comment
*   EAD3 implementation case studies

Input is always welcome. Suggestions during the meeting included: scheduling/developing the EAC-CPF revision webinar, make a call for EAS documentation translations, highlight schema design principles, host (virtual) EAD/EAS brown bag lunches/office hours/open call. Also important to consider the time zones for an international audience (e.g., host a webinar in a third time slot that works for Australia and New Zealand). It will also be prospectively easier to create recorded webinars vs. hosting open calls. (We anticipate that SAA will maintain a Zoom webinar-level license, which will make it easier to administer webinars).


##### Related Standards from Karin

TS EAS used to have a team focused on keep track of standards that we should collaborate with. The team has been dissolved and the question is whether this is a separate team or a task we have for the whole TS-EAS including also the EAS section and Standards Committee?

We have a [report ](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/related-standards-subteam/TS-EAS%20Subteam%20on%20Related%20Standards.pdf)from former team lead Regine which aids us and what we can see is that RiC has really brought this question forward.

**Decision**: The existing team continues to monitor the related standards.

**Decision**: When needed decisions will be made to meet in a dedicated manner on a case by case basis (influential standards like RiC) it's not something on an on-going basis in a dedicated team.


##### EAC-F from Karin

EAC-F is the tentative name!

There are two other ICA standards not supported by EAS standards: Institutions and Activities. The standard for institutions is having a schema maintained by Archives Portal Europe, [http://www.archivesportaleurope.net/eag](http://www.archivesportaleurope.net/eag) . Functions based upon [ISDF](https://www.ica.org/en/isdf-international-standard-describing-functions) have been taken on by TS EAS and preparatory work is ready and found in Google drive and GitHub. 

A team needs to be created and the expectation is that the team aligns with the work made in the EAC-CPF team. 

The original plan of work was to start from the already created French XML-schema but taking into account that RiC now is to be released that will impact the work with EAC-F. 

The on Monday discussed events that need to be examined in the scope of the EAC-F work and the decision is already made to add that as a task.

**Decision**: Make sure to have liaisons with the Records Management Section of SAA.

**Decision**: Reach out to ICA to confirm if there are any planned changes to ISDF

**Decision**: Create a charge with the additions discussed.


### Thursday 6th of August

Notetaker: Jess, Karin

See also the presentation: 2020-08-06_Thursday_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf


#### Bioghist from Kerstin

Kerstin informed about the current status of the element which can be found in both the standards but with some differences. A report has been produced and is named 2020-08-06_Topic_BiogHist_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf . A number of issues have been solved during the last week's meeting but some needs to be looked at in the context of EAD. 

There are some pending questions including the elements &lt;list> and &lt;p> which can be dealt with in the schema publication process. In EAC-CPF there are a list item missing and it will be added to make the models the same.

**Decision**: In eAC-CPFâs element &lt;chronItemSet> the element &lt;date> is added to make it possible to pair date with one or more events and zero or more geographic names.

The discussion continued with the element &lt;citation> and a number of decisions have been made already; replace &lt;citation> with &lt;ref> which is to be renamed &lt;reference>.

**Decision**: &lt;reference> will be a sub-element of &lt;p>.

In EAD it's possible to nest &lt;biogHist>, a solution which seems to be used to get more than one &lt;head>. More investigation needs to be made but nesting should be discouraged.

The elements &lt;blockquote>, &lt;head> and &lt;table> and the presence in EAD not in EAC_CPF can be solved in the publication process of the schemas at the same time EAC-CPF uses &lt;span> as the lament &lt;head>. More investigations needed.

The element &lt;outline> needs a use case. What is it used for? The Tag Library gives rather useless clues. It is used for creating hierarchies which can be achieved with lists and nested items.

**Pending decision**: replace &lt;outline> with &lt;list>


#### EAC Roundup / Test Corpus Mark

Mark has downloaded a number of EAC-CPF files mainly from SNAC and the findings give that the most used element is relationEntry 1.5 mill. There is also an extensive use of &lt;objectXMLWrap> to incorporate EAD-files. No one has used &lt;objectBINwrap>. @localType used in half of them.

We now have a test corpus to use in the revision process!

More examples are needed!


#### &lt;objectBINwrap> from Mark 

The element is not found to be used in the test corpus. Its only found in EAC-CPF. At the same time using the element is a risk since there is no way of giving information about the object so decoding it might prove impossible in the future.

It might have been added to give a possibility to add an image belonging to the EAC-CPF record?

**Decision**: Remove the element and in the transformation give a note that this has not been transformed.

**Decision**: Give a guide on how to link to an image using the new relations section.


#### &lt;objectxmlwrap> from Mark

The element can be used in the relation sections of EAD and EAC-CPF. The element is being used and the discussion came to the conclusion of keeping it and placing it in the correct places without changing the model.

**Decision**: keep objectXMLWrap, will be places in relation, source, setcomponent; for EAD needs to be looked into for equivalent

**Decision**: No change in the model of objectXMLWrap


#### @localType from Karin

During the F2FG meeting in Berlin the @localType vs context-specific @...type attributes vs @type became discussed. The @localType was introduced in EAC-CPF to give users their own value lists to elements whereas EAD3 created and moved over and @type as previously used got more distinct names when value lists were provided as part.

A number of different solutions was discussed including the disliked revival of @type. The discussion ended with keeping the attribute and making sure its also possible to reference which localTypeDeclaration the @localType is using.

**Decision**: keeping @localtype, looking over control, making sure itâs available where needed, and that it's possible to reference which localTypeDeclaration it belongs to in this specific element.

**Decision**: Add an @localTypeDeclarationReference which can reference IDâs.


#### Extra discussion regarding cs:anyattribute

The possibility for users to add their own attributes have been touched during the last years discussion and it needs to be handled in the revision. The use case is to make it possible to add accessibility attributes to the elements.

The discussion ended with the conclusion of making it possible to add attributes bound to a namespace in the EAS standards elements.

**Decision**: xs:anyattribute will be added in all elements of the standards.


### Friday 7th of August

Note taker: Adrian

See also presentation: 2020-08-07_Friday_TS_EAS_Meeting.pdf


#### RiC from Karin and Mark

ICA EGAD is closing in on publication of RiC conceptual model; TS-EAS is following the development closely and we also have members participating in the RiC development work.


##### Short overview of RiC (Silke)

Overview of draft and releases to date can be seen on slides 4-5 in the presentation. (Florence also provided a presentation on RiC at the EAC-CPF schema revision meeting, Berlin, earlier this year).


###### Overview of conceptual model 0.2 (RiC-CM 0.2)

RiC establishes the "Thing" as a primary entity. Sub-entites: Record Resource, Instantiation, Agent, Event, Rule, Date, Place. The entities have been stabilized and there are no plans to change them. There are ~41 attributes defined for all entities, and ~70 relations for all entities (relations are extensible, others can be asserted). Work still in-progress on stabilizing usage conditions for the attributes (e.g., repeatability)

ICA EGAD is a voluntary committee with a lot of work; still working on stabilizing the draft RiC-CM 0.2 -- taking some time to finalize, and also ensuring that the conceptual model, ontology, and application guidelines are in-synch.


##### Create a working group (prepare before November release)

We need to plan a working group that will look at RiC. The discussion ended with putting this on the charge for the EAC-F team.

Silke informed that EGAD is anticipating that ICA will want TS-EAS to provide schema-based expression of RiC-CM (ICA will be maintaining an ontology, RiC-O). 

A stylesheet for generating RiC-O, from EAD and EAC-CPF is available at  [https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter](https://github.com/ArchivesNationalesFR/rico-converter) .

**Decision**: Incorporate RiC and evaluation for the work impact on EAS standards into the EAC-F charge.

**Decision**: Create a team.


##### Participation in joint SAA response

SAA Standards Committee is going to facilitate a joint response, to a forthcoming request for comments on RiC by EGAD. There is a need for 1-2 members of TS EAS to participate.

Silke gave a tentative timeline for EGAD where likely to issue a request for comments on RiC-CM 0.2 and RiC-O 0.2 sometime after October/November. Anticipate a 3-4 month timeframe for preparing and issuing comments.

**Decision**: Confirm a volunteer by mid-September.


#### EAC-F next steps from Karin and Mark

As reported Wednesday preparatory work is available and will be incorporated into the work. Key questions identified by Joost who has been leading the work previously are found at slide 15-19 in today's presentation. An additional point is that development/maintenance of a schema should liaise with SAA Records Management Section.

Kerstin asked if RiC intended to replace ISAD-G, ISAAR-CPF, ISDIAH, etc.? Silke could tell that it is to be determined -- possibly for the long-term? No plans to update ISAD-G, etc. Any future updates and activity will probably focus on RiC.

The discussion included talking about how the work with EAC-F needs to take into account considerations related to community engagement around EAC-F, especially vis-a-vis current (and active) work on EAC-CPF and next on EAD. There is also proposed holding on, moving not too quickly and conducting a more holistic and deliberate review of RiC vis-a-vis EAD, EAC-CPF, ideas for EAC-F.

**Decision**: Karin and Mark to develop a draft charge for subteam to thoroughly evaluate RiC, in relation to ideas for EAC-F (and also existing EAS)


#### EAD revision next steps from Kerstin 

A standard within SAA needs to follow a revision procedure. The procedure is described here  [https://www2.archivists.org/governance/handbook/section7/groups/Standards/Procedures-Review-Approval-SAA-Developed-Standard](https://www2.archivists.org/governance/handbook/section7/groups/Standards/Procedures-Review-Approval-SAA-Developed-Standard) . The first step is to initiate the procedures (see above link) with SAA, a draft of the proposal is expected to be ready by October for a discussion with TS EAS. 

The work will start with a review of status quo between now and summer 2021 for EAD using:



*   Current community input
*   EAD3 implementation survey
*   EAS Sectionâs general survey and potential follow-ups
*   EAC-CPF revision and its impact on EAD
*   RiC publication
*   Additions to the list during the discussion is:
    *   ([https://www.loc.gov/ead/EAD3_Implementation_Survey_Results_and_Discussion_20190320.pdf](https://www.loc.gov/ead/EAD3_Implementation_Survey_Results_and_Discussion_20190320.pdf))
    *   "EAD 20 Years Later" (American Archivist, Fall/Winter 2019)

After that there will be a kick-off with a call for comments in summer 2021 (after the Annual Meeting) ending in 2021 which will provide input to the revision.


#### TS-EAS week of meetings: wrap-up

Karin presented what we have done this week, decisions made during all our meetings and what we will do forward. We got reminded about the all open meeting next week! 

There will be an evaluation form of the on-line F2F meeting circulated by Mark and Karin to see how we should plan ahead with this form of meeting.

Thank you for this week of meetings!
