# TS EAS all-member meeting, 2023-02-23

Notetaker: Karin Bredenberg

Slide deck: [TS EAS slide deck 2023-02-23.pdf]



## Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Present (Y/N)</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski 
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna-Maria Underhill (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lara Michels (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ricardo Eito Brun
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mpho Ngoepe
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lori Lindberg
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sarah Cruz (Early-Career member)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Martin Critelli
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>李彦霖 Yanlin Li (Ellen)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Irene Gates (EAS Section liaison 22-23)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kelly Revak (EAS Section junior chair 22-23)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lydia Tang (Council liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud (EGAD liaison, EAD team)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



# Agenda with Notes 23rd of February 2023



* Welcome!
    * Recording is available for TS EAS use
    * Memberships
        * Marks term as co-chair is ending 2023
            * Plans have been made and Mary Samouelian have accepted, and accepted by SAA and will become the new co-chair
            * New SAA co-chair will working in parallel until August 
        * Call closed 15th of December 2022
            * 11 SAA applications
            * 25 international applications
            * Suggestions with motivations sent to SAA
        * We have filled our membership number
            * Co-chair will send a suggestion to SAA to update the charge so we can have more members
* From Standards
    * Have had meetings January and February
        * January discussion about inviting rep from RiC to discuss how Standards Committee can aid in collecting feedback.
        * February visit by reps from CORDA (Committee on Research, Data,  and Assessment) to present on the Research and Innovation Roadmap for SAA
            * Standards to provide feedback.
        * TS-DACS has been looking for funding to deal with a big backlog of edits/changes, but have not yet been successful in finding the funding. The group is targeting smaller, more manageable, changes.
        * Lots of discussion of revision of Guidelines for a Graduate Program in Archival Studies
        * Inquiry from Term Labor Best Practices Working Group re: sponsorship of an external standard on term labour
* EAS Section updates
    * We welcome Kelly Revak to the meeting, Kelly is the junior chair of EAS Section
        * Joined TS-EAS Communications and Outreach Team Feb 21 meeting to discuss mission overlap between groups
        * Annual meeting focus: archival agents (standards, description, ASpace expanded module, SNAC, underrepresented agents, etc)
            * Cooperation will be made with TS EAS and TS EAS plans for the annual meeting
        * Blog post ( [https://saadescription.wordpress.com/2023/01/10/updates-to-eac-cpf-2-0-a-webinar-recap/](https://saadescription.wordpress.com/2023/01/10/updates-to-eac-cpf-2-0-a-webinar-recap/) ) on EAC-CPF 2.0 webinar published on the Description Section blog
* EAC-CPF
    * The EAC-CPF Webinars and the presentation have been published:
        * November 14: [https://youtu.be/Gs8Erj2GNYk](https://youtu.be/Gs8Erj2GNYk) 
        * November 15: [https://youtu.be/di1cAZIfvG4](https://youtu.be/di1cAZIfvG4) 
        * Slides (PDF): [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/webinars/webinar-eac-cpf-revision-introduction.pdf](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/webinars/webinar-eac-cpf-revision-introduction.pdf) 
    * Focus is now on 
        * Revisions
            * Respond to user feedback.
            * Minor revision anticipated this year: Some small errors and omissions already corrected.
            * EAD4 will require revision to ensure alignment (i.e. moving &lt;fileDesc> out of &lt;control>).
        * Identifying / engaging with user community
            * Solicit example files and example coding, especially from outside the US.
            * Connect with ArchivesSpace, AtoM, etc. about updated schema.
            * Reach out to aggregate sites like SNAC.
* EAD
    * Minor updates have been made to TL and Schematron
    * Will collaborate with the Description Section on a series of webinars together with the Outreach Team
    * Element &lt;fileDesc>
        * EAD specific
        * Will be moved out of control and renamed to &lt;findAidDesc>
            * GitHub issue with details for the Schema Team will be created
    * Are working through the different elements of EAD to make suggestions for the revision
    * Together with the Outreach Team set up a “introduction to EAD” webinar aimed at the East Asian archival community 
    * A funding request have been sent in to SAA Council
* EAC-F
    * Mockups of how a Functions XML-document could look have been created and are undergoing final checks
    * Plan for call for comments on-going with Outreach Team
    * Together with the Outreach Team plan for something at SAA and webinars regarding the draft and CfC
    * Question: Atom has Functions, some clues to why since it's not common in other solutions. 
        * Based upon the ICA standards
        * Will make updates if customers demand it
* Schema team updates
    * Refining our approach to handling external standards (e.g. ISO 693-3) in our Schematron repository
        * For more on new language codes, see for example [Change Request Index | ISO 639-3 (sil.org)](https://iso639-3.sil.org/code_changes/change_request_index/data/2022?title=&field_change_instance_af_idnt_cd_value=&field_change_instance_afctd_name_value=&field_change_request_region_grp_tid=All&field_change_request_lf_group_tid=All&field_change_instance_chnge_type_tid=91&field_change_instance_act_status_tid=139381&items_per_page=50)
    * Will have more discussion (and an upcoming vote) on how to handle EAS-defined attribute lists.  Coming up later in the meeting.
* Outreach
    * Currently coordinating upcoming webinars
        * EAD Team + Description Section webinars series
        * Introduction to EAD
    * Continued development of tutorials and webinars
        * For example for functions
* Full committee discussion points or updates
    * RiC prepared by co-chairs
        * The Standards meeting with a RiC representative will be attended by the co-chairs
        * The Google Drive that Standards is going to provide for collaboration is on its way
    * Predefined value lists in attributes prepared by Schema and EAD team
        * The different of options for the predefined value lists were presented
            * Observe that currently the lists are loosely defined
                * A mechanism needs to be created to gather feedback about the lists and make sure they can evolve
                * Suggestion to create a SKOS vocabulary similar to the ones found for PREMIS at [https://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/preservation.html](https://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/preservation.html) 
            * **Option 1**: No restrictions at all so you write your own values
            * **Option 2**: Completely closed lists 
            * **Option 3**: Extensible predefined bases
                * **Option 3a**: Define which value lists to use in control
                * **Option 3b**: Have an “other...” attribute for all relevant attributes
        * TS EAS will get information on how to vote!
            * Voting period 2 weeks
            * Recording, slides and examples are available for TS EAS members to inform their decision in the internally used Google Drive
    * Element &lt;representation> in &lt;control> prepared by EAD team
        * The element &lt;representation> is so far not seen as needed in EAC-CPF or Functions and will thus be moved and only used in EAD
        * During the revision work the element will be looked at and a suggestion of path forward will be made 
* Any other business (time permitting)
    * No other business this time
* Meetings take place:
    * May
    * SAA Annual meeting
    * October 
    * February (aim: Time better for time zones UTC +5)

Thanks to all who attended!
