# Minutes, 2017-10-19
Time: 7 a.m. PST/ 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Terry
- Mark
- Regine
- Mike

## Agenda / Minutes
- Welcome to Regine
- Next steps to releasing EAD3 1.1. See [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v1.1.1-beta]
  - All encouraged to test!  Mike will take the lead on this.
  - Schema group should add comments to the schema files abou bug fixes and new features.
  - EAD3 subggroup will need to update the Tag Library:
    - issue 485: new feature. added @render to quote element.
    - issue 499: bug fix. objectxmlwrap fixed for xsd files.
    - issue 503: bug fix. fixed descgrp bug in DTD files.
    - issue 505: new feature. date element added as valid child of part.
    - issue 506: new feature. new element. rightsdeclaraction has been added to control.
    - issue 507: new feature. added @localtype to conventiondeclaration.
    - issue 512: minor change. relaxed datatype of @containerid to be a string. code 128 barcodes can now be valid.
  - Next step is comment period. Mike will notify Noah once we get to that stage.
- Discuss
  - Suggestion to use ODD for schema and tag library maintenance.
    - example: [https://github.com/ParthenosWP4/standardsLibrary/blob/master/archivalDescription/EAD/odd/EADSpec.xml]
    - Discussed this at length, but decided not to pursue it presently. One of the primary issues with the current workflow, it seems, is editing the tag libraries with multiple authors, and it's not clear that moving ODD would do anything to improve that specific issue.
    - Also discussed the barrier involved already in updating the TEI tag library
  - Proposal on schemas that we're committed to support moving forward for both EAD3 and EAC-CPF (and others, like EAG/F, if needed)
  - Any other issues / ideas / etc. for the new year
- Schedule our next meeting:
  - Scheduled for 11/17, 10 a.m. EST, but still need to check if that will work with Noah.  If not, we might postpone the next meeting.    


### to do:
- Mark: for next meeting, invite Noah.
- Mark / Regine: write up official readme for generating rng, dtd, and xsd files for both regular and undeprecated (though hopefully this is the last time we'll provide the undeprecated versions). After comment period closes,  merge 3.1 develop branch (then delete) with master and remove working files from "inprocess" directory. Target date: end of December.
- Mike: close out open Github issues (e.g. 508) after reviewing them. Target date: end of November.
- Terry: review branches in Github and delete as required.  Target date: end of November.
- All: test new EAD3 1.1 candidate release.
