# Minutes, 2017-06-09
Time: 9 a.m. EST / 3 p.m. CET

## Attendees
Karin, Terry, Mark, Mike

## Agenda / Minutes

- schematron: still need simple directions.  Mike will work on an FAQ that covers validating EAD3 with schematron
- objectxmlwrap
-- working wiht xsd and rng
-- just not working with the undeprecated versions, but it's not clear what the issue is. spent about 6 hours on the issue so far, which raises the question about the costs of maintaining six version of EAD3
-- Terry will handle the objectxmlwrap issue, and we'll check in about that at the next meeting in July.
- Terry won't be at SAA

### to do:
- Mark will write up a proposal about dropping support for some of the schemas before the next call
- Mark will merge Mike's pull request for the undeprecated schema
- Terry will investigate the objectxmlwrap issue
- Mike will work on a Schematron FAQ

### Next meeting:  July 14th, 9:30 a.m. EST