# Minutes, 2017-12-15
Time: 7 a.m. PST/ 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET


## Attendees
- Karin
- Terry
- Mark


## Agenda / Minutes
* Is [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v1.1.2-beta] ready to send out for comment?
	- regine checked it out prior to our meeting and everything looked fine with objectxmlwrap.
	- terry looked at it a bit.  mainly looked at the xsd.
	- used xerxes and that was fine. (xerxes never had a problem with it, though)
	- libxml in oxygen didn’t complain either. (and that was what caused the problem previously)
	- most programming languages, like ruby, use libxml.

* Intro to Schematron resource
	- let Mike know that Terry can help out on this, as well.

* Scoping EAD3: using "EAD3 lite" as an example
	- Terry will take the lead on this.  Start in the new year.
	- questions about how to include other things in EAD3, like ARIA attributes for HTML transformations.
		- this might also be done with scoping.
		- could also use NVDL for this. written by James Clark; implemented in / available in oXygen, too?

* Testing framework (next steps)
	- not clear vision on how to get there… but we all know that there’s a need for this.
	- making sure that we have a test corpus.
	- also automated tests if we can write them.  XSpec for XSLT… but don’t know of any for schema development.
	- Mark will ask Regine about taking the lead on this one.
	- Karin will ask someone about this at XML Prague in February.  any recommendations for unit testing framework with schema development.

* Other topics

	- EAC:
		- meeting next week.
		- wouldn’t hurt to set up a new branch for “phase 1” and one for “phase 2”.

	- EAG:
		- just an XSD… but does duplicate things in EAC.

	- EAF:
		- no decision from that group.

* Schedule our next meeting 
	- January 19, 2018:  10 a.m. EST.   

## to do before our next meeting:
* test the new schema release with
	- xmllint
	- nokogiri
	- also other libraries in python, etree.
* let EAD3 group know by week of January 8th if it's okay to open up the community comment period.
* Mark will draft the proposal (no more undprecated schemas) and distribute by January meeting.  Include Noah so he can provide feedback from the EAD3 group, as well.