# Minutes, 2017-01-10
Time: 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Mark
- Mike
- Terry

### Protocols for updates and communications:
 - We need a policy draft, added as a readme in Github
 - Bug fixes for the schema will be minor releases, e.g. 1.01
 - Feature releases will be 1.10, etc.
 - All requests for changes, etc., will be funneled to the Github issue tracker / ditto for all our work that involes tasks (e.g. writing documentation)
 - Mike will continue in the role as EAD3 project manager until the end of the fiscal year
 - We also need clear instructions on how to update the schemas…  as Terry notes, some documentation already exists in the “in process” directory
 - What’s testing look like for updating the schema?:
    - "samples" directory has a test corpus that we can start with
    - Also need to test against different validators (e.g. jing/xerces, lxml, and nokogiri)

**Action items:** 

 - Mark will make a rough draft of this document before the Feb. meeting
 - Terry will make sure that there’s documentation for producting the
   schemas with trang. Let’s use issue #499 as a test case to make sure
   that we’re not missing anything in our documentation / communication
   about schema fixes.

###How-to guide for schematrons, etc.
- Recommended that we create a schematron documentation branch… and/or repo.
- This could benefit the eac-cpf revision, as well, if we put the schematron repository outside of the EAD3 repo.     
We need to write a recommendation for how the different schemas can use schematron files.  

**Action items:**

- Mike is going to work on the how-to guide for schematrons in the  next month or so.
- Terry will also document how the new EAD3 schema can be customized locally since that new feature hasn’t been documented yet; Terry will include at least one use case and example of this.
- Mark will send Terry the example that HM created for using the saxon jar to do schematron validations in the EAD export service.

###Meeting schedule
- Meet monthly starting out.
- Mark will send out a Doodle poll to find a time to meet in February

###Other business?
- Need to return to the Github “issue template” on our next call.
