# Minutes, 2017-02-06
Time: 9 a.m. EST / 3 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Mark
- Mike

### Review action items from [last meeting](minutes-2017-01-10.md)
- Mark will continue to work on a draft readme statement (and add that the new TS-EAS Meetings / subteam-notes directory)
- Terry should update the documentation for how to update the schemas (highest priortity); schema localization stuff can be postponed.

### Discuss where to post minutes, working drafts, finalized documents
(e.g. team-notes repo for minutes and working drafts, and/or Github Wiki pages?)
- Resolved that Mark will create a new repo, and start posting minutes and other working files there.

### Return to conversations about the Issue Template.
- Karin added the template to Github where needed; waiting on SAA for the web form.

### Review pull requests / next steps: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/branches]
- We'll follow the workflow of creating a separate branch for each issue (and not use the # character in the branch name)
- Current minor issues: 507 (a localtype one), 485 (adding render to quote)
- Current new feature issues: 505, 506
- When the EAD3 or EAC-CPF subteam has a schema change request, we'll review those as a group to figure out how to make the changes requested
- Still need to determine how long we'll have a comment (and testing) period for new features
- We'll merge the new branches into the "develop" branch
- Do the schema updates in the "develop" branch, and after some testing (yet to be determined / documented), we'll merge with the "master" branch.
- Right now, we're gearing up for an EAD3.1 release to address the issues already raised (some of which have already been fixed, like ObjectXMLWrap #499, by Terry)
	- also still need to address issue 501, which should be an easy fix.
- Also still need to consider / document all of the post-update steps, e.g.
	- sending updated schemas to LoC / elsewhere
	- asking the appropriate subteam to communicate the changes
	- working with the documentation group to update the Tag library
	- ???
- Any expected updates for EAC in the near term?
	- community feedback period was opened and just closed recently, so those will be reviewed and shared soon.
	- also have an early list of propsed changes that will probably be shared with us soon.


### Next meeting 
- Mark will send a Doodle before in the next 24 hours

### Other business?
- No other business was raised.
