# Minutes, 2017-11-17
Time: 7 a.m. PST/ 10 a.m. EST / 4 p.m. CET

## Attendees
- Karin
- Terry
- Mark
- Noah

## Agenda / Minutes
- Next steps to releasing EAD3 1.1. See [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v1.1.1-beta]
  - verify that descgrp is fixed
  - verify that objectxmlwrap is fixed
  - add comments to schemas that indicate the changes supplied in version 1.1
  - let EAD3 subteam know that the release is ready for comments (who will in turn let the Documentation group know once the tag library is updated)
  - hopefully we can get the comment period started in early January, with a new relesae out in February
- Proposal on schemas that we're committed to support moving forward for both EAD3 and EAC-CPF (and others, like EAG/F, if needed)
  - all agreed that we should cease releasing new versions of undeprecated files (barring any major bugs), and that we can simply provide RNG and XSD for EAC-CPF, but we still need to circulate an actual proposal.
  - will discuss again with Regine during/before the next goal.
- What do we need to do now to prepare for EAC-CPF phase1 fixes?
  - No documentation for the creation of the current schemas.
  - We should test using Trang to derive the XSD file from the RNG (e.g. fixing the @accuracy attribute as a quick test)
  - Terry thinks that there might also have been an transformation involved, so he'll look to see if he can find any files that were previously used.
  - If there are any XSLT files used previously, Terry will add those to a branch in the eac-cpf repository.
- Intro to Schematron resource
  - Will revisit with Mike during/before next meeting.  Karin also has examples now, as well.
- Scoping EAD3: using "EAD3 lite" as an example (but not an authorized approach)
  - Agreed that we should set up a new repo for this work.
- Testing framework
  - XSLT development...  using XSpec.  for schematron too.
  - we could create a testbed with known issues (pass/fail varitions)
  - also noted that it has been difficult to automate testing of DTDs because of the external entity references (e.g. when Terry was using files from ArchiveGrid as a testbed)
- Schedule our next meeting    
  - 2017-12-15, 10 a.m. EST.

## to do before our next meeting:
- Mark will fix the descgrp issue manually, add release comments to each schema, and create a new test release (done: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/releases/tag/v1.1.2-beta])
- Everyone will test the release, with the aim of being able to sign off on things by December 15th
- Noah will take these notes back to the EAD3 group (they might also begin making updates to a new branch of the tag library)
- Mark will reach out to Kathy and Karin (copying Noah) about next steps needed elsewhere at SAA
