# TS EAS all-member meeting, 2022-02-24

Notetaker: Karin Bredenberg


## Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Present (Y/N)</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna-Maria Underhill (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lara Michels (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Edwina Murphy (Early career member/ Outreach junior team lead 21-22)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Bo Doub (EAS Section liaison 21-22)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ricardo Eito Brun
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mpho Ngoepe
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lori Lindberg
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>

# Agenda with Notes 24th of February 2022

* Welcome! (Karin and Mark)
    * Start recording 
        * Wednesday 23rd: 9pm PST / 10pm MST / 11pm CST
        * Thursday 24th: 0am EST / 5am UTC / 6am CET / 7am EET / 10.30am IST / 4pm AEDT
    * News about SAA2022?
        * Information regarding section and appointed groups meetings was sent out on the 23rd.
            * All of these meetings are open to all
            * Between 11 July and 12 August
            * Sections 90 minutes and booking will be possible from mid-March
            * Appointed groups will be contacted by SAA to plan the meeting
            * 2022 SAA ANNUAL MEETING
                * “We are hopeful that we will gather for the 2022 SAA Annual Meeting at the Boston Sheraton. The main conference is scheduled for August 25-27, 2022. As the current public health crisis continues, SAA staff are exploring options for a hybrid conference that will allow attendees to connect however they are most comfortable and for the Society to adjust based on CDC requirements. More information will be forthcoming as we explore options while monitoring the public health crisis.”
* From Standards (Lara)
    * Standards had no meeting in January
    * February meeting had the EAC-CPF submission questions on the agenda
        * Reply was **yes** to do as suggested to give one link to all issues and in the submission just discuss a few.
        * Reply was **yes** to give links to announcements. (Make sure they are on-line)
    * The EAC-CPF submission and also other questions regarding submitting to Standards have initiated further work to be done with regard to the process and instructions.
        * TS EAS supports having the documents that were created for informing the EAC-CPF team being part of the information
        * Thank you Lara for providing us with them!
* EAS Section updates (Bo)
    * EAS Section Steering Committee is small this year
    * Plans have started for a joint EAS Section and TS EAS meeting during SAA2022
        * Main focus will be a panel about standards from the point of view of being an aggregator or sending information to an aggregator. 
        * Also the usual updates that occur at sections meetings
        * Info regarding EAC-CPF release if possible
        * Kerstin raised the suggestion of a separate TS EAS meeting to handle EAD revision information making sure the time accommodates international participation
            * Can be planned when we know more about available time slots
        * TS EAS please give comments on the call for participants to the panel!
* EAC-CPF team updates (Silke)
    * Marie has agreed to become the new team lead and is currently working in parallel with Silek and will fully take over after the submission to Standards have been made
    * No other changes in the team
    * Continues with meeting once a month
    * Current work is focused on finalising the submission to Standards of EAC-CPF version 2
        * Thank you to Ailie for all the work with the TL!
        * Aim(?!) ready to be released by SAA2022
            * Depending on comments from Standards and the process to hand it over and get adoption from Council
    * Work after handover:
        * Finalise Best Practice Guide (BPG) which is an aiding document outside of the EAC-CPF documents that goes through the adoption process. Community additions will make the BPG grow and aid in soliciting comments and examples also for the EAD revision
        * Prepare webpage for the update to EAC-CPF version 2
        * Prepare the release 
    * There has been a Chinese translation of EAC-CPF submitted and it is now available on the EAC-CPF webpage. 
        * Thank you for this work! 
* EAD team updates (Kerstin)
    * No changes in the team
    * Continues with meeting once a month
    * A minor update to EAD3 TL and a bug fix for the EAD 2002 schemas have been made
    * Call for comments in phase 1 has been extended to the end of March
        * Please spread info in your networks!
    * Webinar to introduce the EAD major evision on 9/10 March
        * Please spread info in your networks!
    * Working with a funding request from SAA for FY23
        * To aid with a F2F meeting
    * Conclusions from the discussions in October were presented
    * What do we do if no one gives us comments?
        * Alignement coming from the EAC-CPF revision has started
        * It might take time before comments come, some want to see the changes and not just discuss theories 
        * Lot are still using EAD2002
        * Many conversations take place within the organisations and are not brought further
        * A lot of users are indirect users with the systems they use which means they necessarily do not care about the standards, they count on the vendors and solution providers to take care of it
        * RiC will be a factor to take into account on the evolution of EAD
        * Some already say they will look into EAD4
        * **Partly conclusion**: Start with the work as it has been started the alignment with EAC-CPF and then see what happens
* Schema team updates (Mark)
    * Team has two new members, welcome Lori and Mpho!
    * A lot of ongoing responsibility for the team
        * Schema creation/updates/bug fixes
        * Maintain and share documentation both regarding the schemas but also the team
    * Current work includes
        * Finalising schema/schematron for EAC-CPF version 2
        * Include date rules in Schematron for the updated ISO standard ISO-8601, version 2019
        * Updates in the TL transformations
    * Planned and initiatives underway
        * Framework for Best Practice Guide
        * A page for validating your files towards EAS schemas using the framework from the JATS model (e.g. [https://validator.jats4r.org](https://validator.jats4r.org) )
        * Implement GitHub action and automated testing for the EAS schemas in particular with the aid of our contact to OPF through Sydarkivera
* Outreach team updates (Cory)
    * No changes in the team
    * Continues with meeting once a month
    * Work with finalising the RiC webinar is on-going
    * Work with tutorials is on going
        * Added to the list is a tutorial about controlled access
            * Contact have been made with the Description Section
            * Maybe include the way of handling vocabularies in the updated EAS standards
    * Planning for the EAD webinar in March is on-going
    * A process for the outreach work is ready
    * Discussion points
        * Discussion lead by Kerstin
            * Interest in using the blog part of the SAA microsite for the different teams?
                * Quarterly information, blog/newsletter?
                * Remember the time needed!
                * Open it up for contributions from others? Examples: NARA, UN and a lot more to get both institutional and international knowledge
                * Work with the EAS Section!
                * A remark that bringing up reparative description actions might raise interest in submitting practices and aid with blog posts. [https://dictionary.archivists.org/entry/reparative-description.html](https://dictionary.archivists.org/entry/reparative-description.html) 
            * How to handle that our users want to email us and contact us in their own language?
                * Update microsite to inform about who the members are so it is not an anonymous group
                * Inform about languages that can be used
            * How to engage with the users in a more informal way? Brown bag lunches, Zoom fika and other ideas?
                * Make sure it becomes possible for international attendance
                * On-line needs to be an option
            * Contact lists and contacts to solution providers?
                * A list of who can contact which providers, specific parts of the community and so on
                * Careful with GDPR
                * The announcement list of SAA (part of usual sending list for TS EAS announcements)
                * Use the aid of all TS EAS members connections
                * An extension to existing distribution list, as this is about active engagement, e.g. presenting at community events or working with providers to reflect TS EAS’ work
            * Monthly information updates/tutorials from TS EAS and the subteams? 
                * Discussed under the first point in this part
            * How to connect with the educators to facilitate their learning of the users about the standards we are maintaining?
                * Discussed with the contact lists
* EAC-F (Karin)
    * Team has started!
    * Meets biweekly
    * Currently going through what has been handed of by Joost and looking at avabale examples and dthe ISO standards describing functions and records management
    * All notes in GitHub!
    * First team report available in GitHub!
* Any other business (time permitting)
    * None this time
    * Thanks for participating! Good Night, have a good working day and have a nice evening!
* Meetings take place:
    * SAA Annual meeting
    * October 
    * February (aim: Time better for timezones +5 UTC)
    * May
