## TS EAS all-member meeting, 2021-02-19

Notetaker: Kerstin, Mark, Sara

Regrets: Iris

### Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td>Present
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anila Anjeli
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Aaron Rubinstein
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Noah Huffman
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Wim van Dongen
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Joost van Koutrik
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Adrian Turner (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Caitlin Rizzo
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glenn Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Betts (EAS liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sara Schliep (Early career member 20-21)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



### Agenda



*   Welcome! (Karin and Mark)
*   Major/Minor + Community feedback update + ISO standards access (Eric / Mark)
    *   Procedures for minor revisions approved by SAA Council during their January meeting
    *   Currently in the works: web form
    *   Until the web form is ready, there is a Word document that can be used
    *   Defines what qualifies as minor, meaning that the change can be approved by Standards Committee directly
        *   Minor revisions include:
            *   Updating links in an appendix or standard
            *   Updating crosswalks based on changes to adjacent/companion standards
            *   Making grammatical corrections
            *   Bug fixes
            *   Patches
            *   Making suggestions for use/providing use case examples
    *   Request for access to ISO 8601 (latest version, including EDTF) was requested via Standards Committee
        *   Can request access to other ISO standards that TS-EAS uses if required and useful
    *   No further developments on procedures for community feedback yet
*   SAA Publication? (Karin and Mark)
    *   TS-EAS can request electronic ISBN-s for major revisions as well as - potentially minor revisions - of the tag libraries
    *   Turn-around time probably around one week
    *   Happy to take something print-ready; if required to do some editing, SAA Publication would prefer a Word version
    *   SAA Publications will manage process of publication, online and/or print
    *   TS-EAS to manage the electronic ISBN-s
*   RiC evaluation process (Mark)
    *   As soon as published, the joint working group between Standards Committee, TS-DACS, and TS-EAS would pick up their work
    *   Intention to have two members of TS-EAS participate
        *   Kerstin already mentioned  being interested (depending on the timings)
        *   Ailie said she can take it back to her team to see who might be interested
    *   RiC roadmap update (Florence)
        *   [https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/RiC-O_v0-2.html](https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/RiC-O_v0-2.html); [https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/ontology](https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/ontology)  
        *   Not officially announced yet, but available online now
        *   This latest version of RiC-O is now up to date with the latest version of RiC-CM (though the latter is not published yet)
        *   New RiC-CM will be published in April, most likely.  Main changes around relations. 
        *   GitHub: [https://github.com/ICA-EGAD/RiC-O](https://github.com/ICA-EGAD/RiC-O); [https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/ontology](https://www.ica.org/standards/RiC/ontology)  
            *   Comments welcome anytime
        *   Publication of RiC-CM 1.0 and RiC-O 1.0 planned by the end of 2021
*   Volunteer members / reminder about new practice for May meeting to let us know if you want to continue for the remainder of the appointment. (Karin and Mark)
    *   Anyone whose appointment time is up in August to please let Karin and Mark know whether they will continue
    *   Tested new web form for international membership
        *   Great turnout
    *   Also great turnout for SAA members this cycle
*   EAC-CPF revision (Silke)
    *   Aiming at sending call for comments by first/second week of March
        *   Probably going to be open until end of June
    *   Schemas (RNG and XSD) plus Schematron and conversion stylesheet done
        *   Mainly some cleaning up to do
    *   Tag Library under review at the moment
    *   Release notes text in preparation
    *   Publication via the EAC website: [https://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/](https://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/) 
    *   Getting the word out together with Outreach Team and EAS Section’s Steering Committee
*   EAD revision (Kerstin)
    *   Minor revision of EAD3 Tag Library
        *   Mainly typos, corrections in terms of aligning what the Tag Library says and what the schema says, additional examples
        *   Also including formatting updates, which mainly result from the work on the draft for the EAC-CPF 2.0 Tag Library and are now added for the EAD3 Tag Library as well
        *   Probably going to be the first use case for electronic ISBN
    *   Major revision of EAD
        *   Approved in December, announced in January
        *   For 2021:
            *   Getting an up-to-date understanding of the lay of land, survey included in the announcement
            *   Review EAC-CPF 2.0 draft from EAD perspective
            *   Prepare initial draft of EAD 4.0 including changes resulting from reconciliation between the two EAS
            *   Call for comments probably in fourth quarter of 2021 (after Annual Meeting)
        *   Aiming at a face-to-face kick-off meeting in spring 2022
            *   Will request funding via SAA
            *   Looking for host institutions and/or sponsors
    *   Collaboration with Outreach Team on webinars
        *   EAD3 use cases in panel session (~May)
        *   Possibly “brown bag lunches” in digital format as a more informal possibility to check in with the community
        *   Introducing the EAD revision (~October)
*   Outreach / EAS Section updates (Adrian and Cory)
    *   Standing liaison between TS-EAS and EAS Section
        *   Betts acting as liaison of EAS Section within TS-EAS meetings
        *   Adrian and Cory acting as liaisons of TS-EAS within EAS Section
    *   SAA Education contact, Rana Hutchinson Salzmann
        *   SAA Education is happy to cross-promote and collaborate with TS-EAS on workshops if we have ideas
    *   Overview of encoded archival standards video to be posted soon on the SAA YouTub channel
        *   Other webinars in the works: EAC-CPF revision (March/April) and EAD3 use case (May)
    *   [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/reports/report-20210219.md](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/outreach-communications-subteam/reports/report-20210219.md) 
*   EAS Section update (Betts)
    *   Working more closely with Outreach Team and TS-EAS in general 
        *   Aiming at joint meeting in April to look into shared sessions during Annual Meeting
    *   Mainly having worked on updates to the EAS Section’s website in terms of training material, etc.
    *   Also having worked on webinars and similar events
*   Schema team updates (Mark)
    *   Schemas, empty elements? Require content? What content to require
    *   [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/schemas-subteam/committee-updates/update-2021-02-19.md](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/schemas-subteam/committee-updates/update-2021-02-19.md) 
    *   Highlighting some changes in EAC-CPF 2.0 in terms of requiring content in certain elements
        *   &lt;recordId> cannot be empty
            *   Already a requirement in EAC-CPF 1.0
            *   Data type has been relaxed
        *   &lt;part> (in &lt;nameEntry> and the new &lt;targetEntity>) cannot be empty
        *   &lt;maintenanceAgency> requires either &lt;agencyCode> or &lt;agencyName>; when only one is used, this does require content (done via Schematron)
        *   &lt;eventDateTime> (in &lt;maintenanceEvent>) either needs to have content itself or needs to use the attribute @standardDateTime (done via Schematron)
    *   Highlighting the existence of a conversion script to transform EAC-CPF 1.0 to EAC-CPF 2.0
*   Maintenance of standard versions (All)
    *   There are requests for updates in EAD2002 how do we handle that? Freeze, do, not
    *   Will be the same for EAC-CPF
    *   Part of the Design Principles? (Yes, we should add)
    *   Seems most of the issues are around the codes from ISO standards, not necessarily other aspects of the standards (at least judging from feedback on EAD 2002)
    *   Look into whether or not we will need to commit to updates to the ISO code lists anyway as we still use them via Schematron
    *   General agreement that there should be an “expiration date” on supporting a specific version of a standard, e.g. 
        *   Support the previous version of a standards up to five years after the release of the most current version, i.e. if EAC-CPF 2.0 is released in 2021, the support for EAC-CPF 1.0 would cease by 2026
    *   Use the recently brought up issues around the script codes in EAD 2002 to make this an official policy
        *   Update EAD 2002 in terms of effectively removing the lists, so that files with codes that are not part of the current lists will validate (maybe simply based on a regular expression rather than a specific list of codes)
    *   Would also be useful with regard to an according policy for TS-EAS provided conversions from one version of a standard to another (i.e. only from the previous version to the most current one)
    *   Have an according note in the readme.md files for each standard repository
*   Any other business (time permitting)
    *   May meeting will concentrate on preparing the Annual Meeting
        *   Which team needs a separate meeting?
        *   How many whole committee meetings do we need to cover all topics?
        *   What would be a good way to introduce new members? Maybe something more informal, our own “brown bag lunch”?
*   Next meeting
    *   2021-05-14, same time
