# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 20 October 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Anna McCormick, Caitlin Rizzo, Eric Sonnenberg , Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Wim van Dongen

## 1. Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
  - First example files have been submitted
  - Will be saved in an "Examples" folder in the Google Drive
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 71: Kerstin to contact Glenn to get more information on LoC's work with EAD3 - IN PROGRESS
  - Initial contact made with leadership of LoC's EAD group
  - As Caitlin has been in contact with the same colleagues in the context of action 34, this action here will be merged into action 34 going forward
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS
  - To be prepared for the next EAD team meeting
- Action 81: Kerstin to bring EAD topics to joint meeting with EAS Section and report back during next meeting - DONE - see topic 2
- Action 82: Kerstin to review examples for attributes (as part of elements’ examples), [#63](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/63) - DONE
- Action 83: Kerstin to prepare call for examples where we don't have any in the TL at the moment - DONE
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 85: Kerstin to finalise proposal form by 25 September - DONE
  - Action 85a: All to review and provide feedback by 2 October - DONE
  - Action 85b: Kerstin to share with whole TS-EAS ahead of quarterly meeting on 9 October - DONE

## 2. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAS Section
  - Update from joint meeting between EAS Section and TS-EAS Outreach team on 15 September
    - Survey takeaways
      - EAD training is still important
      - Many archivists are still creating these files by hand
      - Many people wanted to have one place to go for information
        - Aim to strengthen the [EAS Section’s page](https://www2.archivists.org/groups/encoded-archival-standards-section/resources-maintained-by-the-eas-section) to provide this place
        - EAS Section will be working on developing these resources (together with Outreach team of TS-EAS)
      - Interest in understanding why archivists are not using archival management systems instead of text editor, or why they are using a text editor in addition to an archival management system
    - Other outcomes
      - Shared Google Doc for collaboration and planning to be established, one for webinars (planned, ideas for future webinars), one for documentation, tools, etc. for training and support
      - Liaison from EAS Section to be appointed to TS-EAS and the other way round
      - EAS Section will cross-share information on meetings to allow TS-EAS members to attend
      - TS-EAS to assist with resources page developed by EAS Section
- Outreach Team
  - Reminder to review the draft for the "Archival Encoding Standards Primer" (ACTION for all)
  - Deadline for feedback is 21 October  

## 3. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- [Minor release](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/pull/72)
  - DECISION: continue with preparation for this minor TL update
  - DECISION: also take into account examples from (and for) draft EAC-CPF 2.0 TL
    - ACTION: Kerstin to send reminder to all TS-EAS members about providing examples with a deadline for feedback in January
  - Check examples in [EAS Section’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/saa-ead-roundtable/ead3-toolkit)
    - ACTION: Kerstin to see if there are any examples for attributes included in the sample files there, which are not yet covered in the current TL-s
    - ACTION (for later on): Make sure to add any applicable examples from this current process to the sample files in case they are not included there yet
  - DECISION: provided no community requests come in for EAD3 until end of the year, this could be published earlier than July, i.e. wouldn't have to wait for the full cycle

## 4. Upcoming EAD revision
- Final review of the various sections of the [Proposal for Standards Development form](https://www2.archivists.org/standards/proposal-for-standards-development) in GoogleDrive
  - Went through comments and and suggestions received from TS-EAS members after the committee's quarterly meeting on 9 October
  - Adapted texts accordingly and included most of the suggestions made
  - DECISION re next steps:
    - ACTION: Kerstin to finalise the document and send to EAD team for a last round of review
    - ACTION: All to review the document once more by 23 October (end of day)
    - ACTION: Kerstin and Karin to take care of creating a PDF from the GoogleDoc to submit as attachement and to transfer the information into the submission form

## 5. Any other business
- Next EAD team meetings, same time as today:
  - 9 November
  - 15 December
  - Doodle polls set up for meetings from January to June 2021

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS
  - To be prepared for the next EAD team meeting
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 86: All to review the draft for the "Archival Encoding Standards Primer"
- Action 87: Kerstin to send reminder to all TS-EAS members about providing examples for TL issue [#63](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/63) with a deadline for feedback in January
- Action 88: Kerstin to see if there are any examples for attributes included in the sample files in [EAS Section’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/saa-ead-roundtable/ead3-toolkit), which are not yet covered in the current TL-s
- Action 89: Kerstin to finalise the document and send to EAD team for a last round of review
- Action 90: All to review the document once more by 23 October (end of day)
- Action 91: Kerstin and Karin to take care of creating a PDF from the GoogleDoc to submit as attachment and to transfer the information into the submission form
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meetings from January to June 2021
