# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 9 November 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Anna McCormick, Wim van Dongen

## 1. Actions from last meeting and ongoing actions
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 86: All to review the draft for the "Archival Encoding Standards Primer" - DONE
- Action 87: Kerstin to send reminder to all TS-EAS members about providing examples for TL issue [#63](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/63) with a deadline for feedback in January - DONE
- Action 88: Kerstin to see if there are any examples for attributes included in the sample files in [EAS Section’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/saa-ead-roundtable/ead3-toolkit), which are not yet covered in the current TL-s - IN PROGRESS
- Action 89: Kerstin to finalise the document and send to EAD team for a last round of review - DONE
- Action 90: All to review the document once more by 23 October (end of day) - DONE
- Action 91: Kerstin and Karin to take care of creating a PDF from the GoogleDoc to submit as attachment and to transfer the information into the submission form - DONE
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meetings from January to June 2021 - IN PROGRESS - see topic 7

## 2. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- EAS Section
  - Update from joint meeting between EAS Section and TS-EAS Outreach team on 15 September
    - Analysis of EAS Section’s survey on agenda for our December meeting
- Outreach Team
  - Ideas for EAD3 implementation webinar/panel on agenda for our December meeting  

## 3. Upcoming EAD revision
- Update and current status of proposal submission
  - Submitted via the online form on 27 October
  - Received confirmation of receipt on the same day
  - Has been shared with the whole Standards Committee on 3 November
  - Will be on Standards Committee’s agenda on 12 November

## 4. Updates to EAD3 Tag Library
- [Minor release](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/pull/72)
  - DECISION: agreed to the general framework for the tag library as set out in the issues [#57](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/57), [#58](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/58), [#59](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/59), [#60](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/60), [#62](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/62) and [#65](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/65) 
  - DECISION: also agreed that these should be in draft for EAC-CPF 2.0 TL
  - DECISION: furthermore agreed that it would make sense to have both TL follow the same framework, i.e. once this is settled with the draft EAC-CPF 2.0 TL, the minor release of the EAD3 TL will follow accordingly

## 5. New EAD3 issue [#544](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/544)
- Background
  - The element `<localControl>` comes from EAC-CPF, where its use is very specific around the level of detail of the entity description (see review comments in [#105](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/105).
  - In the context of EAC-CPF, the question has hence been raised whether there is an option to revert back to using the attribute `@detailLevel` that had been part of EAC beta. This would then lead to removing `<localControl>`.
  - The EAD3 TL includes a variety of other examples for `<localControl>`, though we do not have much evidence of these being actively used.
- DECISION: draft email asking for EAD3 examples in general and pointing to <localControl> as one part for needing use cases
- ACTION: Kerstin to update the issue on GitHub
- ACTION: Kerstin to prepare draft text for the next EAD team meeting

## 6. New EAD2002 issues
- [#1](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/issues/1) Change text encoding to UTF-8 for RNG
- [#2](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD2002/issues/2) Update list of ISO codes
- DECISION: generally agreed that TS-EAS will not make updates to previous versions of the schemas for the standards it manages; once a new version of a standard is released, only the latest version will see patch and minor releases
- DECISION: the Schema team of TS-EAS will have a look at possible solutions that TS-EAS could provide to the issues raised
- ACTION: Kerstin to update both issues
- ACTION: Mark to take ownership of these issues on behalf of the Schema team

## 7. Any other business
- Next EAD team meetings, same time as today:
  - 15 December
  - Doodle polls set up for meetings from January to June 2021

## 8. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - IN PROGRESS
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples - IN PROGRESS
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageOfElement` and `@scriptOfElement` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languageDeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingSystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
  - This is mainly a REMINDER for future activities.
- Action 72: Kerstin to contact Cory and Adrian noting the option for a future webinar - IN PROGRESS
  - Webinar/panel discussion on the schedule for 1st quarter of 2021 (EAD3 implementation case studies / looking ahead to "EAD4")
- Action 80: Kerstin to start further analysis of anonymised data from EAS Section's survey - IN PROGRESS
  - To be prepared for the December meeting
- Action 84: Karin and Mark to inform Eric and Meg about minor TL release being in preparation - IN PROGRESS - see topic 3
- Action 88: Kerstin to see if there are any examples for attributes included in the sample files in [EAS Section’s GitHub repository](https://github.com/saa-ead-roundtable/ead3-toolkit), which are not yet covered in the current TL-s - IN PROGRESS
- Action 92: All to indicate their availability and preference for meetings from January to June 2021 - IN PROGRESS
- Action 93: Kerstin to prepare draft text announcing the EAD revision for the December meeting
- Action 94: Kerstin to update EAD3 issue #544
- Action 95: Kerstin to update EAD2002 issues #1 and #2
- Action 96: Mark to take ownership of EAD2002 issues #1 and #2 for Schema team
