# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 3 March 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Caitlin Rizzo, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Mark Custer, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://duke.zoom.us/j/427656214

## Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 29: Caitlin to update on EAS Section meeting on 6 December with special focus on EAS Section's survey 
  - See topic on collaboration with outreach team and section below
- Action 34: Caitlin to reach out to EAD3 users (as follow-up of action 33) to start gathering examples - DONE
  - Emails were sent early March with deadline of 1 April
- Action 35: Kerstin to check with Karin and Mark about TS-EAS' strategy with regard to reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O in early 2020 - DONE
  - Related Standards team within TS-EAS had a call on 4 February during which it was decided to aim at a joined review by Standards, TS-DACS and TS-EAS
- Action 38: All to review the draft charge for the new Outreach and Communications team
  - See topic on collaboration with outreach team and section below
- Action 39: Alex to regenerate HTML and PDF outputs for EAD3 1.1.1 TL and to create pull request - DONE
- Action 40: Kerstin to contact Standards and LoC for publication - DONE
- Action 41: Kerstin to announce EAD3 1.1.1 via EAD listserv - DONE
- Action 42: Caitlin to announce EAD3 1.1.1 via EAS Section's listserv - DONE
- Action 43: All to have a look at and to comment on Standards' proposal on minor and major changes - DONE
- Action 44: Noah to update the visualisation of the rolling revision cycle and to send this to all TS-EAS members for feedback - DONE
- Action 45: Kerstin to send reminder about EAD3 issue #517 in January - DONE
- Action 46: Kerstin to contact SNAC and Kalliope for potential use cases for &lt;objectxmlwrap> - DONE
  - See topic on issue #517 below
- Action 47: Alex and Mark to add examples from their institutions to further conversation in EAD3 issue #517
  - See topic on issue #517 below
- Action 48: All to review proposed decision tree ahead of joint meeting on 28 January - DONE
- Action 49: All to review more detailed proposals ahead of joint meeting on 28 January, once shared - DONE

## Team report
- Can be found here: https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/ead-subteam/committee-updates/update_2020-02-21.md
  
## Issue #517
- https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/517
- EAD team reviewed comments received from the community via the issue:
  - Have emphasised concerns with regard to data exchange and interoperability (“...should not replace the core requirements for the c/did...”)
  - Have brought forward one more encoding example (using MARC21 directly within &lt;c>), but have not brought forward any additional use cases from other community members
  - Have suggested an extension of &lt;odd> to accommodate other namespace metadata
  - The conversation on GitHub concentrated on the first option identified in the call for comments, i.e. having &lt;objectxmlwrap> as an alternative to &lt;did>, which was more or less ruled out by most commenters due to the above mentioned issues for data exchange and display as well as general interoperability.
- EAD team reviewed additional feedback from SNAC and Kalliope projects that have been asked directly about their potential use of &lt;objectxmlwrap>:
  - SNAC used &lt;objectXMLWrap> for resource descriptions (MODS for data derived from MARC21 and for top-level &lt;did> from EAD) during the R&D phase, but only for transporting the data, and not as a final form. All of the data is now mapped into a relational database, with EAC-CPF on demand, but without using the &lt;objectXMLWrap>
  - Kalliope does not use &lt;objectXMLWrap>, even though some of their partners do need to describe objects in more detail from time to time (different use cases). This is usually done by other means with linking back to existing records in different metadata formats is the preferred approach. So far there have been no requests from their partners for expanding descriptive elements. 
- Decision:
  - Emphasise the use of the existing solution with &lt;relations>
  - Apart from the concerns with regard to interoperability, this also speaks to the circumstance that EAD is an archival description standard, not a “wrapping” standard such as e.g. METS would be


## Collaboration with Outreach and communications team and with EAS Section
- Caitlin shared initial raw data collection from the EAS Section's survey
  - Further review is pending
  - Caitlin will update during next meeting
- Noah has kindly agreed to act as liaison between Outreach and Communications team and EAD team  
  - Reminder to aim at participating in at least one of the two initial webinars scheduled on 17 April
    - 3.00pm CET / 6.00am PDT / 7.00am MDT / 8.00am CDT / 9.00am EDT / 11.00pm AEST
    - 6.00pm CET / 9.00am PDT / 10.00am MDT / 11.00am CDT / 12.00pm EDT / 1.00am AEST

## Any other business
- Remaining EAD3 GitHub issues: #467, #498, #501, #503, #508
  - Should these be done this year or next year?
  - I.e. do we expect there to be an EAD3 1.2 version during 2020?
  - Decision: Seems to make more sense to approach these in the context of general harmonisation tasks between EAD3 and EAC-CPF
- Reminder with regard to wrap-up sessions set up for each day during the EAC-CPF revision face-to-face meeting in Berlin
  - Monday, 9 March, 5.40-6.10pm CET
  - Tuesday, 10 March, 4.40-5.10pm CET 
  - Wednesday, 11 March, 4.40-5.10pm CET -> this is “EAD3 reconciliation day”
  - Thursday, 12 March, 11.40am-12.10pm CET
- Doodle polls have been set up for meetings until July
  - approx. 6 weeks apart
  - Mondays or Tuesdays, 9am US East Coast / 2pm London / 3pm Central Europe
    - 20 or 21 April
    - 8 or 9 June
    - 20 or 21 July
- New GitHub issues on typos in EAD3 TL
  - Such fixes will wait for now until minor/major changes document has been finalised and confirmed as these fixes would count as minor changes and would need to be approved by Standards

## New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 34: Caitlin to reach out to EAD3 users (as follow-up of action 33) to start gathering examples - DONE
  - Emails were sent early March with deadline of 1 April
- Action 35: Kerstin to check with Karin and Mark about TS-EAS' strategy with regard to reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O in early 2020 - DONE
  - With Standards for details and next steps re joint review of Standards, TS-DACS and TS-EAS
  - Karin and Mark to follow up with Standards
- Action 50: Kerstin to update GitHub with regard to issue #517 - DONE
- Action 51: All to review results from EAS Section's survey in terms of content, but also with regard to potential extension/changes to questions in future and ideas for e.g. webinars
