# Meeting of the TS-EAS EAD Team, 8 June 2020
- 9am Eastern Time / 2pm London Time / 3pm Central European Time
- Participants: Alexander Duryee, Karin Bredenberg, Kerstin Arnold, Mark Custer, Noah Huffman, Silke Jagodzinski
- Apologies: Caitlin Rizzo, Wim van Dongen

## Zoom meeting info:
- https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84442817549

## 1. Actions from last meeting
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April)
  - We have had two institutions, Bistumsarchiv Fulda in Germany and Library of Congress in the US, agree to provide examples for the tag library, but they have both asked to provide them with some extra time given the work disruptions going on globally
- Action 35: Karin and Mark to confirm next steps with Standards Committee re reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 51: All to review results from EAS Section's survey in terms of content, but also with regard to potential extension/changes to questions in future and ideas for e.g. webinars - see TOPIC 2
- Action 52: All to feedback on web tutorial proposals - see TOPIC 2
- Action 53: Kerstin to update topic paper on `<script>` according to team decision - DONE - see TOPIC 4.1 
- Action 54: Kerstin to update issue [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520) according to team decision - DONE - see TOPIC 4.1
- Action 55: Kerstin to update topic paper on dates according to team decision - DONE
- Action 56: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issues for date related aspects according to team decision - DONE (see [#526](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/526), [#527](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/527), [#528](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/528), [#529](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/529))
- Action 57: Kerstin and Silke to agree a date/time for another joint between EAD and EAC-CPF Teams - AWAITING FEEDBACK - deadline: 12 June
- Action 58: Kerstin to follow up on question from Hong Kong on EAD Listserv - DONE

## 2. Updates from EAS Section / Outreach Team
- Caitlin (EAS Section)
  - EAS Section's survey was shared with the Outreach team as well of late. 
  - EAS Section is still coordinating work around analysis.
  - On a general note: EAS Section is currently looking for new members so if anyone is interested in a more active EAS or has ideas for the section, they might want to consider coming aboard. Caitlin is happy to talk with anyone who has concerns re workloads or commitments.
  - Team feedback on the EAS Section’s survey:
    - Aspects of interest include:
      - Question 10: people seem to use various ways in parallel to engage with the EAS; it would be interesting to follow-up on that to know which combinations are most prominent and to know why people feel the need to combine e.g. a collection management system with a text editor
      - Question 14: half of those using a collection management system say that compliance with the EAS has had a impact on their choice of system; it might be interesting to know more about how that selection process is conducted, e.g. what do people check, how do they check when it comes to compliance with standards and which standards are included in their considerations (especially whether it's the EAS or more ICA's description standards)?
      - General: with regard to planned changes, there are a few talking about changing to EAD3 as well as some others talking about integrating EAC-CPF with EAD; but there also is one response questioning the applicability to EAD to born-digital (to be kept in mind with regard to a future major revision)
      - General: some of the additional comments ask for being more internationally oriented (e.g. with regard to collection managament systems listed), for addressing issues for smaller institutions in contrast to bigger institutions, for including opportunities for smaller institutions to collaborate, for creating more possibilities for training and - especially - online resources
  - ACTION: Kerstin to check with Caitlin about EAS Section's plans for next steps (publication of survey results and potential follow-up)    
- Noah (Outreach Team)
  - Going to concentrate on webinar “How to Submit Bug Report / Feature Request” first
  - Noah to work on draft and then ask for another round of feedback

## 3. Tag Library issues
- [#69](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/69)
  - ACTION: Alex to take care of the bug fix in the context of other TL tasks
- [#70](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/70)
  - ACTION: Kerstin to notify Glenn for direct fix on LoC website

## 4. Issues from EAD3 reconciliation topic at EAC-CPF meeting in Berlin
### 4.1. Issues for decision by and/or input from EAD team (today’s meeting)
- [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520)
  - Topic paper was presented at the EAC-CPF team meeting on 24 April including the decisions taken by the EAD team during our previous meeting
  - Agreement with renaming `<script>` to `<writingsystem>`
  - Additional suggestions from EAC-CPF team:
    - Rename `@lang` and `@script` to `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` to make it clearer what they refer to
      - DECISION: Agreed to move forward with these name changes, even though not yet 100% convinced about the actual names (alternative options discussed: `@languageofcontent` and `@scriptofcontent`, `@languageofvalue` and `@scriptofvalue`, `@languageofelementvalue` and `@scriptofelementvalue`)
      - DECISION: Recommendation to include clear examples for these attributes and their usage when publishing the draft for the new EAC-CPF and see about comments from users
      - ACTION: Silke to make sure this is taken into account when preparing the call for comments
    - Rename `@langcode` to `@languagecode` to match EAC-CPF’s name and to avoid the abbreviation “lang” for “language”
      - DECISION: Agreed
      - ACTION: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue
    - Remove sub-elements `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` from `<languagedeclaration>` and use `@languagecode` and `@scriptcode` directly with `<languagedeclaration>`
      - DECISION: Agreed to move forward with this
      - DECISION: Recommendation to include clear examples when publishing the draft for the new EAC-CPF and see about comments from users
      - ACTION: Silke to make sure this is taken into account when preparing the call for comments
    - ACTION: Kerstin to update [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520) accordingly 
### 4.2. Issues to follow-up with according changes in EAD (today’s or next meeting)
- Change the content type of `<maintenancestatus>`, `<publicationstatus>`, `<agenttype>` and `<eventtype>` to empty elements, i.e. not allowing any text
  - Argument that these are sub-elements of <control>, where it is not (that) essential to have the option for internationalisation 
  - DECISION: Generally agreed to elements not having content
  - DECISION: Recommendation to review whether adding an attribute to include local/other types could be of benefit (e.g. for migration paths in EAD)
  - ACTION: All to look out for this in the general conversation around `@localtype` respectively allowing attributes from other namespaces
  - ACTION: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issues
- Review data type for `<recordid>`
  - Currently “text” in EAD3, but specifically NMTOKEN in EAC-CPF
  - Question whether this could be moved to be NMTOKEN?
    - NMTOKEN does not allow for blanks/whitespaces, apart from leading or ending ones, and only for hyphen (-), underscore (_) and full stop (.) as special characters.
  - DECISION: Suggestion to rather relax the restrictions of NMTOKEN in EAC-CPF as there are known cases for record identifiers having other special characters; aiming at rather having it more open in the standard, but enabling users to apply their own restrictions if wanted
  - ACTION: Silke to report back to EAC-CPF team
- Add `@transliteration` to go along with `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement`
  - DECISION: Agreed to use `@languageofelement`, `@scriptofelement` and `@transliteration` as one group for language attribution
  - DECISION: Recommendation to include clear examples when publishing the draft for the new EAC-CPF and see about comments from users; should also include the note that these three attributes can, but do not have to be used together in every case
- Review which elements should include language attribution (only elements that can have text themselves or potentially some parent elements of these as well, e.g. `<descriptivenote>` to cover all `<p>` elements within or rather only `<p>` itself)
  - DECISION: Look at this in the joint meeting of EAD and EAC teams in July
  - ACTION: Kerstin and Silke to prepare topic paper
- Align the use of attributes `@certainty`, `@notafter`, `@notbefore` within all single date elements
  - This refers to `<date>`, `<fromdate>` and `<todate>`that would all have all three attributes (as optional)
  - `@certainty` would come with the recommendation to use EDTF terminology, i.e. “uncertain”, “approximate” and “uncertain and approximate”
  - DECISION: Agreed
  - ACTION: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue
- Review the use of former XLink attributes
  - Suggestion to only stick with `@href`, `@linkrole` and `@linktitle`, but to remove `@actuate`, `@arcrole` and `@show` as these are more about formatting than about (descriptive) information
  - Initial response from EAD team was that this might require some more insights in how these attributes are used at the moment, especially when used to link to digital objects (e.g. thumbnail vs master)
  - DECISION: could be removed, if we go ahead with allowing attributes from other namespaces; users who wanted to use `@actuate`, `@arcrole` and `@show` could then fall back towards the appropriate XLink attributes if wanted 

## 5. Any other business
- Next EAD team meeting: 21 July, same time
- Reminder: Doodle for joint EAC/EAD team meeting (deadline: 12 June)
- Reminder: Survey with regard to spelling questions (deadline: 14 June) 

## 6. New and ongoing action items
- Action 4: Karin and Mark to continue preparing the implementation of milestones and assignment of issues when working with GitHub - IN PROGRESS
- Action 20: Karin and Mark to confirm final version of rolling revision cycle with Standards Committee - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 34: Caitlin to get back to EAD3 users for examples (deadline for feedback was 1 April) - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 35: Karin and Mark to confirm next steps with Standards Committee re reviewing upcoming drafts of RiC-CM and RiC-O - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 57: Kerstin and Silke to agree a date/time for another joint between EAD and EAC-CPF Teams - AWAITING FEEDBACK
- Action 59: Kerstin to check with Caitlin about EAS Section's plans for next steps (publication of survey results and potential follow-up) - DONE
- Action 60: Alex to take care of the bug fix for [#69](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/69) in the context of other TL tasks
- Action 61: Kerstin to notify Glenn for direct fix of [#70](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries/issues/70) on LoC website - DONE
- Action 62: Silke to make sure examples for `@languageofelement` and `@scriptofelement` are included when preparing the call for comments
- Action 63: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue to rename `@langcode` to `@languagecode` - DONE - [#530](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/530)  
- Action 64: Silke to make sure examples for `<languagedeclaration>` without `<language>` and (now) `<writingsystem>` are included when preparing the call for comments
- Action 65: Kerstin to update [#520](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/520) - DONE  
- Action 66: All to look out for question of having a local or other type option for `<maintenancestatus>` and `<publicationstatus>` specifically in the context of the conversation around `@localtype` respectively allowing attributes from other namespaces
- Action 67: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issues for the changes to `<maintenancestatus>`, `<publicationstatus>`, `<agenttype>` and `<eventtype>` - DONE - [#531](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/531), [#532](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/532), [#533](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/533), [#534](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/534) 
- Action 68: Silke to report back to EAC-CPF team on `<recordid>` - DONE - [#82](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eac-cpf-schema/issues/82)
- Action 69: Kerstin and Silke to prepare topic paper for language attribution on content or wrapper level elements in advance of the joint EAC and EAD team meeting in July
- Action 70: Kerstin to create initial (placeholder) issue for `@certainty`, `@notafter` and `@notbefore` on single date elements - DONE - [#535](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAD3/issues/535)
