# TS EAS all-member meeting, 2023-05-30

Notetaker: Sarah Cruz

Slide deck: Link to pdf of slide deck


## Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Present (Y/N)</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski 
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna-Maria Underhill (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lara Michels (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Anna McCormick
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ricardo Eito Brun
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mpho Ngoepe
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lori Lindberg
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia (EAC-CPF team lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Sarah Cruz (Early-Career member)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Martin Critelli
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>李彦霖 Yanlin Li (Ellen)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Irene Gates (EAS Section liaison 22-23)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kelly Revak (EAS Section junior chair 22-23)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lydia Tang (Council liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud (EGAD liaison, EAD team)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>James Truitt
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



# Agenda with Notes 30th of May 2023



* Welcome!
    * Recording is available for TS EAS use
        * New group will be captured for a photo in the October meeting!
    * Quick round of introductions
    * Recap regarding applications, Memberships
        * Mary is the new incoming co-chair!
        * Meeting with Lydia Tang to discuss updates to roster and edits to charge
            * No updates received about roster - TBD
* From Standards
    * [Karin] - Meetings every month, new external standards considered for approval - Best Practices for Archival Term Labor
    * Revision of Guidelines for College and University Archives
        * Tools to revise process into flowchart to make it easier (i.e. Lara’s checklist for EAS-CPF was valuable)
        * Annual meeting July 13th, 12-1:30 EST, Karin will attend and provide update for group. Need to sign up to receive link to attend
        * Panel with Kerstin and EAD revision, Archives for Black Lives - standards, creation of standard and approval process. Not mandatory, but attend if you can
* EAS Section updates
    * [Irene]  - Upcoming elections for three candidates. Three members, Michelle, Beth, and Irene, cycling off at the end of the summer.
    * Survey of users and what standards they’re interested in, to define itself, and redefine scope of EAS section -  to discuss overlap with mission with TS-EAS, as well as outreach and communication efforts. Determine how EAS differs from TS-EAS. One person needed from TS-EAS to help EAS with the survey
    * [Kerstin, Karin, Mark] Suggested - have one survey for both groups. Start with general questions, then specify questions. Want to avoid survey fatigue 
    * [Irene] - survey instrument not chosen yet. James and Kelly will reach out to Karin
    * Plan Annual Meeting on June 20th
        * Draft announcement is almost ready - contains agenda [link in slide]
        * Panel on agents record - four panellists, including Marie Elia. Need to start to communicate logistics with confirmed panellists
        * [Marie] Reach out to Ellen, TS-EAS member, to be a panellist; Marie will help Irene moderate panel
        * [Irene] Controlled vocab webinars update; [Kerstin] announce during annual recap
* EAC-CPF
    * [Marie] No changes to the team since February; meet first Thursday of every month
    * Con’t ongoing - revision work, responding to feedback and expecting a minor revision; gathering more examples from the community; connecting with the way people are creating encoded records and are aligned with the new version; no major updates
    * [Mark] Confirming if ArchivesSpace needs ticket to export EAS-CPF 2.0, if TS-EAS and similar groups can help; [Marie] Agents module was updated; will follow up with Mark; [Cory] found ticket new version of standards released, but no ticket for update
* EAD
    * [Kerstin] No changes to team since February; meet third Friday every month - always open to new members & perspectives
    * Minor revision to EAD3 Tag library in preparation
    * Detailing set of use cases - link in slide. (i.e. how much overlap between EAD and other standards, topic list)
    * Topics as part of major revision
        * Multilingual descriptions, Modelling sub-elements instead of @relator, Instantiation/representation in EAD, Remodelling relations, et al.
    * Webinar on controlled access terms - collab with Description Section
        * Controlled access terms March/April 2023 recordings on SAA YouTube
    * Intro to EAD webinar for East Asian community and preparing a workshop for aggregators and use of EAD
    * Topics for upcoming meetings
        * Modelling relations
        * EAD and RiC
        * More use cases
    * Hybrid meeting in Washington D.C. 24 to 26 July, includes EAD 4.0 draft and drop-in session to discuss conceptual ideas with community  [Karin] Invite has already been sent for meeting
* EAC-F
    * [Karin] Mockups are ready - XML documents to release to the public starting June 20th
    * White paper on functions - schema and tag library
        * Work with Outreach to set up webinars
    * Meeting notes link in slide for github; meeting on Thursday
* Schema updates
    * [Mark] membership has remained the same, but welcomes new members
    * Meeting first Friday of each month (updated schedule)
    * Next meeting - June 2nd 9:30am
    * Next objective - Preparing draft scheme for major revision of EAD one week before annual - July 17th
* Outreach
    * [Cory] membership has remained the same
    * Supported November EAC-CPF
    * Collaborating on upcoming webinar series on controlled vocabularies - announce in Annual Meeting; transcription work is on-going and aim to have available by the end of the summer, members are invited to help if they have the time
    * Involved with discussions EAD East Asia webinars
    * Open invitation to support subteams with outreach or training material development
* Full committee discussion updates
    * RiC prepared by co-chairs
        * The Google Drive that Standards is up - [Karin] how do members get invited to the google drive?
    * Discussion about the EAS community
        * How we should approach software vendors so there is no duplicate effort?
        * Research and document who those groups are (e.g., Artefactual). Who is connected and how? (i.e. ArchiveSpace - Elizabeth, Metadata strategy board). Mark and Karin will continue discussions with Mary
            * [Kerstin] vendors, software producers, updates, and how they exist with user groups; vendors consider how many users are affected
            * [Mark] Consider formal liaison group; [Karin] need to know that new updates are available
        * Get groups together to discuss the implementation of new EAS standards
        * [Mark] Consider SAA Funding for development 
    * Predefined value lists in attributes prepared by Schema and EAD team
        * [Mark] Survey recap - provided four options on how to handle EAS Attribute Values Lists
            * Most votes for Option 3a: EAS Attribute Value lists may be extended within each file once per attribute type (modifying control) - looking to implement in draft schema going forward
        * Next steps
            * Draft schema to include option in advance for testing before annual meeting on July 17th
            * Option affects EAC schema - aim to also have EAC-CPF 2.0 draft schema updated for testing
            * Before release of EAD schema, define EAS values - create vocabularies with notes and context rather than labels/name list
            * Publish update with EAC-CPF 2.0. Official version would be released at the same time
            * Welcomes feedback about survey and mechanisms used
                * [Karin] consider versions, Option 3a is not backwards compatible
                * [Mark] It would be a major update, even though it's a minor modification. Updates could be automated
            * July 17th is the date to submit
* Any other business (time permitting)
    * No other business this time
* Meetings take place:
    * SAA Annual meeting
        * TS EAS + EAS Section meeting Tuesday 20th of June 6pm CEST
        * Standards Committee Thursday 13th of July 6pm CEST 
        * EAD revision meeting 24-26 July - Let Kerstin know if you plan to be there
            * [Mark] specify date/time for hybrid meeting; [Kerstin] consider morning sessions
        * TS EAS meetup?
    * October 
    * February (aim: Time better for time zones UTC +5)
    * May

Thanks to all who attended!
