# TS EAS all-member meeting, 2024-10-24

Notetaker: Yogita Sharma

Slide deck: TS EAS 2024-10-24


## Participants


<table>
  <tr>
   <td><strong>Name</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Present (Y/N)</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Karin Bredenberg (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mary Samouelian (Co-chair)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ailie Smith
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Alexander Duryee
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Andrew Janes
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Cory Nimer (Outreach lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Dan Michelson (co-chair of Standards Committee; sitting-in for Lara Michels)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Elizabeth Russey-Roke
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Eric Sonnenberg
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Erick Cardoso
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Florence Clavaud (EGAD liaison, EAD team)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Gerhard Müller (EAC Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Glen Gardner (EAD Web liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Iris Lee
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Janaya Kizzie (EAS Section liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kerstin Arnold (EAD lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Kolbe Resnick
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lara Michels (Standards liaison)
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Lydia Tang (Council liaison)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Marie Elia (EAC-CPF lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Mark Custer (Schema lead)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Martin Critelli
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Otshidile Patience Tshegetsang
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Silke Jagodzinski 
   </td>
   <td>N
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Venkat Srinivasan
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Yogita Sharma (Early career member)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Ypapanti Kytta
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>李彦霖 Yanlin Li (Ellen)
   </td>
   <td>Y
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



# Agenda with Notes 24th of October 2024



* Welcome! (Karin)
    * Recording starts automatically!
    * Notetaker
        * Yogita Sharma
    * Membership and introductions 
        * Note of thanks to leaving members Mpho Ngoepe and Jane Gorjevsky
        * Members re-appointed to TS-EAS (3 years)
            * Karin Bredenberg
            * Silke Jagodzinski (previously ex-officio)
            * Elizabeth Russey-Roke
            * Martin Critelli
            * Dia Kytta
        * New members
            * Yogita Sharma (1 year appointment; Early-career member)
            * Eric Sonnenberg (3 year appointment)
            * Kolbe Resnick (3 year appointment)
        * Liaison to Standards Committee, Lara Michels, wasn’t present for this meeting. Dan Michelson, co-chair of Standards Committee, joined instead
        * Liaison for TS-EAS web pages, Glenn Gradner wasn’t present for this meeting. Gerhard Müller joined the meeting.
        * Liaison from the Collection Management Section (since September), Megan Mummey, wasn’t present for this meeting.
        * All the TS-EAS members introduce themselves, including name, time zone, their position title and whether they were receiving the emails from TS EAS mail list.
        * Everyone is receiving emails.
        * TS EAS team photograph taken.
    * Introduction to our systems
        * Four committee-wide meetings per year, one of which is face to face during the annual SAA meeting and will be in Anaheim, Canada this time. Note that SAA’s annual meeting in Anaheim will start on a Sunday.   
        * These are the communication avenues
            * Official TS-EAS listserv; housed by SAA (archivists-tseas@connectedcommunity.org )
                * Besides getting email from the TS-EAS roster, all SAA members have an account on SAA connect which you can access and change to your preferred email.
            * EAS listserv; housed by the Library of Congress (ead@listserv.loc.gov)
                * Around since early 2000; but has been a bit quiet as of late 
            * E-mail to TS-EAS forwarded to the co-chairs (ts-eas@archivists.org )
            * Google Drive (for working documents)
                * TS-EAS roster, used for emailing, exists within this Google Drive
                * Please ONLY edit your row and not anyone else’s  
            * GitHub (for meeting minutes,  schemas, and committee documentation)
                * Everything still exists on [https://github.com/SAA-SDT](https://github.com/SAA-SDT)
            * Slack (new channel for TS-EAS, should subteams want to use Slack)
                * Currently with just Karin and Mark on it 
            * Please reach out to Karin if aren’t able to access any of the above
* Updates
    * From the SAA annual meeting in August 2024
        * A YouTube video from this meeting will be published soon! https://www.youtube.com/@SocietyofAmericanArchivists 
    * Standards Committee  (Dan Michelson on behalf of Lara)
        * Basics
            * Lara continuing co-chair and Dan incoming co-chair of Standards Committee
        * Updates
            * Dealing with lots of roster issues for groups within SAA that manage standards.
            * Many committees and sections will be adding mid-year members and SAA has sent out a request for nominations.
            * TS-EAS component group request for funding for 2025 SAA meeting submitted to Council and they will be meeting about that in November and hopefully the request will be approved. The Standards Committee is also discussing making this an ongoing thing; Lydia Tang thinks it is possible and everyone would need to make that request early before SAA’s annual budget is set   
            * Standards Committee project for the year involves early work on a road map for standards in SAA. We are making sure that we are caught up on which standards are in need of being updated, specially with the groups whose work borders on standards. And then for the standards roadmap, we will be starting with a survey of the profession about their use of standards as well as needs and desires around standards.
    * EAS Section (Janaya)
        * Currently just two members:  Janaya Kizzie, Co-Chair, 2023-2025 and Jacqueline Devereaux Asaro, Steering Committee Member, 2023-2025.  We are waiting to hear from them.
    * EAC-CPF (Marie)
        * Basics
            * Encoded Archival Context - Corporate Bodies, Persons, Families; Responsible for schema (files) & documentation
            * Consists of 8 members, US-based  & international
            * Meets monthly via Zoom; 1st Thursday, 11:00am/12:00pm UTC; (i.e. 7:00am EDT/EST, 10:00pm AEST/11:00pm AEDT)
        * Maintenance, and looking ahead
            * Minor revision, v 2.0.1, released in January 2024
            * Preparing to review for alignment with EAD 4.0
            * Working with EAC-F and EAD teams toward a suite of standards that reflect contemporary archival concepts & models and work together to represent relationships among agents, activities & resources
            * Goal is to have standards that can be maintained collectively and not have staggered updates to standards
        * Documentation
            * [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/eaccpf-subteam](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/eaccpf-subteam)
            * [https://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/](https://eac.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/)
    * EAC-F (Karin)
        * Basics
            * EAC-F is the working name and will end up with EAD-Functions; Based upon ISDF; our white paper took inspiration from RiC (relations and name of relations mostly); Work closely connected with the work in the EAC-CPF Team so we will not be making that many special functions elements rather there will be shared elements which is the goal
            * Review just closed after an extension, summarized next
        * Updates: Summary from CfC comments
            * 7 responses from around the world
            * All 7 gives that we need to create the TL and XML-schema
            * Some comments gives that more discussion is needed, for example extending the information regarding the functionAgent with dates
            * We need more help; Ailie has already volunteered to help with setting up the tag library; We are going to be really busy
        * Notes and report
            * [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/functions-subteam/meeting-minutes](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/functions-subteam/meeting-minutes)
            * [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/functions-subteam/committee-updates/20220525-FunctionsTeam.md](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/blob/master/functions-subteam/committee-updates/20220525-FunctionsTeam.md)
    *  EAD (Kerstin)
        * Basics
            * Encoded Archival Description; Cares about Schema (files) + Documentation
            * Consists of 14 members; Both US-based  and international members
            * Meets monthly via Zoom; 4th Friday, usually 1.5 hours; 1:00pm UTC (i.e. 7:00am Central Standard Time, 8:00am EDT/9:00am EST, 2:00pm CET/3:00pm CEST, 9:00pm China Standard Time)
        * Updates
            * Major revision of EAD
                * Started in 2021 alongside the major revision of EAC-CPF and the development of EAC-F
                * Includes review and updates of the schema and schematron plus the Tag Library
                * Looks to extend the Best Practices Guide with additional and new examples
            * Preview sessions on the draft of EAD 4.0 in January and February 2024
            * First draft of EAD 4.0 schema published in April 2024 along with first draft of schematron and additional documentation
            * First draft of EAD 4.0 tag library published in July 2024 along with further documentation
            * Call for Comments open between 19 April 2024 until last Sunday (11 August 2024)
                * Four open drop-in sessions alongside Call for Comments
                * Four posts on the Descriptive Notes blog alongside Call for Comments
        * Documentation
            * On the TS-EAS page on the SAA website: [https://www2.archivists.org/groups/technical-subcommittee-on-encoded-archival-standards-ts-eas/call-for-comments-revision-of-e-0](https://www2.archivists.org/groups/technical-subcommittee-on-encoded-archival-standards-ts-eas/call-for-comments-revision-of-e-0)
            * On the TS-EAS GitHub page: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/ead-subteam/major-revision_2021-2025_documents](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/TS-EAS-subteam-notes/tree/master/ead-subteam/major-revision_2021-2025_documents)
        * What’s next?
            * TS-EAS had a two-day hybrid meeting reviewing and discussing feedback received during the Call for Comments
                * Still some issues remaining that need to be reviewed
                * Other issues need some further discussion
                * Status: https://github.com/orgs/SAA-SDT/projects/1 (includes schema, schematron, Tag Library and Best Practices Guide issues)
            * Update draft of EAD 4.0
                * Schema as well as accompanying documentation
                * Probably including a draft standardised transformation towards EAD 4.0 and additions to the EAS Best Practices Guide
                * 2nd Call for Comments to come (timeline will depend on other related strands of work)
    * Outreach (Cory)
        * Basics
            * Promote broader awareness of TS-EAS' activities and its work plans, across a range of key stakeholders and audiences. Liaise with the EAS Section leadership on communications, education, and outreach plans
            * 5 members; 2 liaisons
            * Meets monthly; 3rd Tuesday; 11 AM ET
        * Ongoing work
            * Continuing support for TS-EAS webinars and events; outreach hub
            * Reviewing available documentation portal content
            * Considering options for updating Putting Descriptive Standards to Work 
    * Schema (Karin on behalf of Mark)
        * Basics
            * We work closely with and receive instruction from the three other standards subteams within TS-EAS, namely EAD, EAC-CPF, and Functions.  Our primary goal, then, is to make sure that the decisions made by those standards teams are translated and encoded into machine-readable formats…With the aim of making sure that any archival description that finds its way online is easily shareable and reusable as possible. 
            * Currently 7 members and open to new members
            * Meets monthly, 1st Friday via Zoom; 1 p.m. UTC 
        * Documentation
            * Base schemas: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eas-schemas/tree/development](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eas-schemas/tree/development)
            * Best practices: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-Best-Practices/](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-Best-Practices/)
            * Schematron: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eas-schematrons/tree/main](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/eas-schematrons/tree/main)
            * Tag Libraries: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-TagLibraries)
        * Fun stuff, such as our developing Best Practices web presence( working with the value lists): [https://saa-sdt.github.io/EAS-Best-Practices/docs/value-lists/addressLineType.html](https://saa-sdt.github.io/EAS-Best-Practices/docs/value-lists/addressLineType.html)
* Full committee discussion points or updates
    * Updates from the co-chairs
        * [ts-eas@archivists.org](mailto:ts-eas@archivists.org) Updated so mail is sent on to just Karin and Mary
        * Call for members
            * 4 reappointments and 2 new SAA and 1 international needed for TS-EAS. So total 7 members up for appointments. If your period is ending in 2025, we (Karin and Mary) will contact you! Consider if you’d like to continue as we will need to know asap.
        * SAA requested us to update our bylaws for co-chairs terms. 
            * Our current bylaws state: “The technical subcommittee shall be composed of between fifteen and twenty-five members (excluding two co-chairs) appointed by the SAA Vice President / President-Elect for staggered three-year terms so that a minimum of three individuals are appointed by the Vice President each year.”
            * No changes suggested, its staggered 3 years for both co-chairs and members
        * Funding request for our meeting at the Annual meeting has been sent by Standards to Council 17th of October. Fingers crossed, after the Council meeting in November, invitations can go out.
            * Annual meeting start on Sunday this time so we will be having our TS-EAS meeting Wednesday, Thursday, Friday the week before
        * Revision cycles
            * Step one: alignment of our standards: EAC-CPF, EAC-F and EAD; Coordinate teams and timelines; Karin and Mary start the work
            * Step two: hand over package to Standards -> Council; takes about 3 months to go through
            * Step three: Prepare request for major revision looking into RiC; Heads up: We need to keep an eye on the RiC email list, there were a comment on using EAS standards but tweak them a little to fit RiC, information about our planned work will be needed
            * Step four: Revision with alignment according to our assessment of RiC-CM
    * Recording of TL setup
        * Ailie has helped us with the a recording for only internal use of how to work the Tag Library (TL)
        * Alexander is helping us set up the transformations
    * Aid with the EAS value lists
        * The change in the predefined value lists is moving forward hosted by the Best Practice Guide (BPG); Explanations and sources needed
        * Look: [https://saa-sdt.github.io/EAS-Best-Practices/docs/value-lists](https://saa-sdt.github.io/EAS-Best-Practices/docs/value-lists)
        *  Driver: [https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-Best-Practices/tree/main/docs/value-lists](https://github.com/SAA-SDT/EAS-Best-Practices/tree/main/docs/value-lists)
        * Who in TS-EAS can help?
            * Elizabeth volunteered to help; She also reminded us it is we should recommend and look at other value lists which is a perfect thing for the best practice guide
* Any other business?
    * Lydia Tang introduced herself to the group as our Council liaison
*   Next meetings
    * February (aim: Time better for time zones UTC +5)
    * May
    * SAA annual meeting (July)
    * October
* Another TS-EAS photo taken.

Thanks to everyone who attended!    
